rusTHE
SALES BOSS
THE REAL SECRET 
TO HIRING, TRAINING 
AND MANAGING
A SALES TEAM.


.r
J	•
:	-- •,.•,· .•I l
Mffli  f
"·	-	'I	•
,. .,.	. .	•	:'i
.


·--
,·,::.a.	•


"'	'
'.




\
.
,
•
•



 
JONATHAN WHISTMAN
















DEDICATION
To Kellie Zimmet for believing in me, supporting me and walking with me through 
this wonderful thing we call life. I love doing life with you.


Table of Contents
Dedication 
Forward
Chapter 1: The Work of a Sales Boss
Chapter 2: The Importance of Sacred Rhythms 
Chapter 3: The DNA of a Sales Boss
Chapter 4: The Truth About Humans 
Chapter 5: Your First 30 Days as Boss
Chapter 6: Understanding the Market for Hiring 
Chapter 7: Step-­?By-­?Step to Hiring a Sales Superstar 
Chapter 8: Use the Power of Science in Selection
Chapter 9: Onboarding a New Member of the Sales Team 
Chapter 10: Know Your Sales Process and Your Numbers 
Chapter 11: Who Gets My Time and Attention?
Chapter 12: Team Rhythms that Lead to Group Cohesion 
Chapter 13: Individual Rhythms That Lead to Star Performances 
Chapter 14: Keep Score Publically
Chapter 15: Lead by Principle, Not Policy
Chapter 16: Make Sales Technology Work For You 
Chapter 17: Money Talks: Compensation Planning 
Chapter 18: Forecasting the Future
Chapter 19: Replicating Success 
Chapter 20: The Business of You


<A>Introduction

      If you have ever been on the inside of a top performing sales team, you 
know it can look like magic to an outsider. The revenue piles up, in what seems 
like an effortless process. Everyone from vendors, suppliers, marketing 
prospects, customers, management and the sales team are entwined in an 
elegant dance. The result of which is increasing revenue. The truth is, it only 
looks magical.

      It is the result of a carefully orchestrated plan. My belief is that at the 
center of that successful plan is the Sales Manager. If the company is 
underperforming, it is always the sales manager. Unfortunately, the opposite isn’t 
always the truth. If a company is performing well, it is not always the result of the 
sales manager! I know this seems like a harsh view.

      If you are the sales manager, you get the blame when things go wrong 
and only partial credit when things go well. I’d suggest you get used to it as that’s 
the reality in every company and if you are to succeed you must be up to this 
challenge. You must believe that if things are not going right, you and only you 
are to blame.

If the marketing department isn’t getting the message out correctly in the right 
places or with the right tone- it's your fault.


If the customer service department is failing to deliver great service and your 
company’s reputation is suffering as a result- it's your fault.

If your company’s product is out of date and not meeting the current needs of the 
market- it's your fault.

If your company doesn’t pay enough to be competitive- it's your fault.


If your company isn’t (insert anything here)- it's your fault.


      The power of taking full responsibility for the results of your company’s 
results cannot be understated. It is critical. If you can’t adopt this mindset, save 
everyone a bit of trouble and get out while you still can. You will never deliver 
results at the highest level. There are much easier ways to make a living than 
managing a sales team. The rewards are great, but so is the task at hand. In 
fact, I call the sales manager operating at the highest level the Sales Boss. The 
Boss isn’t content to manage. The Boss gets results. Here are the real secrets to 
hiring managing and training a sales team.

<A> Chapter 1: The Work of a Sales Boss


      A Sales Boss’s job is to deliver revenue that sufficiently and meaningfully 
exceeds the cost of delivering that revenue. If you want to be a Sales Boss, you 
must learn the art of getting the best results through other people. Sometimes


these people will be directly on your team, but in many cases will exist in other 
areas of the company such as marketing, customer service, finance, and product 
development. Your success hinges on the ability to control and influence all of 
these spheres as all of them impact the results of the sales team. A Sales Boss 
will never say, “That’s not my job.” They’ll always ask themselves, “How do I 
influence this area that is impacting my team?”

      Arguably, no other job is more critical in the success of a company than 
the Sales Boss. When a company is smaller, the salesperson is of central critical 
importance; but as a company grows, the importance of the individual 
salesperson diminishes and the importance of having a skilled manager in the 
role takes the place of central critical importance.

In any business, nothing happens until somebody sells something.
Nobody pays their mortgages, no kids get sent to college, and no retirements get 
funded until the salesperson is able to close business and get revenue coming in 
the door. In a company with a sales manager, the hiring, training and success of 
the sales people lay directly at the feet of the manager. The importance and 
significance of this role can well be illustrated by a recent study that shows that 
95% of the CEOs in mid-size companies have at some point in their career filled 
the role of Sales Manager prior to being promoted to run the company. Clearly, 
this job matters. The hopes and dreams of the entire company depend on you 
doing your job well.


      In this book, we’ll start by looking at some key truths that apply to 
managing people. It will be critical that you dedicate yourself to becoming a 
student of human nature since no sales forecast, plan or report will ever actually 
get something sold. Selling is done by people and people are messy. I 
remember an early business mentor telling me, “Business would be easy if it 
wasn’t for the people.”

      Next we will walk through the process of building a world-class sales 
organization: what to do in your first 30 days on the job, how to write a sales job 
advertisement, best practices for interviewing and selecting the final candidate to 
ensure that you are getting superstar salespeople. We’ll discuss the specifics of 
coaching and mentoring your team as well as how to think about systems, 
reports, compensation and the other moving pieces you’ll need to master in the 
role of Sales Boss. We will largely focus on the team directly under your control, 
the sales team - but, the best sales leader will always remember the need to 
have influence throughout the company. Since if it needs fixing, you must find a 
way to get it done even if it falls outside the official boundaries of your team. This 
book will prove invaluable to someone who is looking to improve as a manager of 
the sales team, but will also serve the head of the company who needs to 
evaluate the performance of his company’s sales manager or who might be 
looking to add a sales management position to their company.

      If you are looking for a quick checklist to evaluate how great you are as a 
Sales Boss or you need to evaluate the manager of your sales team, then


understand that you might be simplifying what it takes. Read through the pages 
of this book and spend thoughtful and honest time asking yourself if the portions 
related to being a Sales Boss describe the person you are or the person you 
currently have in the role. While I would recommend reading the entire book for 
a full overview on all of the key components to being a great Sales Boss, you 
might also choose to move directly to the chapters that you know you currently 
need help with as you build your team. Realize though that best results come 
from an application of all of the concepts presented working in concert together. 
This is the secret.

      Why should you consider heeding the advice in this book? Primarily, 
because it works. I’ve built, operated and sold a number of companies that all 
depended on the ability to sell and build a sales team. I’ve “eaten my own dog 
food” to borrow a phrase. I’ve kept a sales journal and my personal sales metrics 
daily for the last 20 years.

      I am writing this book after having worked directly with sales teams as a 
sales consultant for the last 15 years working with some of the top brands in 
each niche. I have personally observed over 2500 individual sales calls and 
participated in the coaching and training of these sales people. I’ve attended 
many hundreds of sales meetings and observed the skills and abilities of the 
managers running these meetings as well as helped them develop their coaching 
and management skills.


      I can tell you that I have seen some of the best coaching and selling in the 
world and I’ve also had a front-row seat to some of the worst. I’ll be able to give 
you real world examples of both and share the impact that each has on the 
performance of a team. This knowledge doesn’t come just from academia. It 
comes from having been involved on the front lines of management.

      While working with my clients, I have had the opportunity to look behind 
the curtain at these companies and see how they utilize their CRM (Customer 
Relationship Management) systems, develop their sales funnels and marketing 
and how they approach the hiring, training and onboarding of new salespeople. 
I’ve seen how companies struggle to get tracking systems implemented and used 
by the team then how the team reacts to various tactics to get them to utilize a 
system. I’ll share these insights.

      Outside of the business arena and prior to my work with sales teams, I 
was deeply involved in a religious cult. Being raised inside the group from birth 
and later breaking free from its control as a young adult. I won’t go into the 
details as that would be another book entirely!

      So why do I mention this detail of my life here? Despite all of the wrongs 
of the cult, it did give me an insight into how people’s beliefs about themselves 
and their environment can be shaped. I was able to witness the power of belief 
in the daily actions of people. I learned how to overcome and change deeply held 
habits not only of myself, but also of the people in my group. The cult was a


gigantic laboratory of human nature. I learned a lot about motivation tools outside 
of money or the threat of unemployment as the entire group, including the 
leadership team, are volunteers who choose to be involved.

      I spent over 10,000 hours voluntarily knocking on people’s doors and 
giving them the cult’s sales pitch. I also recruited, trained and mentored many 
others to do the same. I spent many thousands more in one-on-one coaching 
sessions.

      In many ways, building these “religious sales teams” and managing their 
activity was much harder than building a team for a company. I wasn’t paid and 
neither did I have any money to offer converts. To join the Cult Team, you’d be 
an unpaid volunteer and give up many of your family and friends and live as an 
outsider! This was not an easy sell and I admit I had a pretty good conversion 
rate! Many of the lessons I learned as I witnessed human nature have shaped 
the insights I have utilized in helping companies find, train, coach and mentor a 
top performing sales team. While I rejected the teachings of the cult, I believe 
this has given me some unique insights into what it takes to create a winning 
sales team or to turn one around that is underperforming.

      In this book, I will describe all of the key areas that a Sales Boss should 
be focused on in performing at the highest level and building the best team. First 
and foremost, if you want to have a superstar sales team that wins consistently 
and demolishes the competition then YOU as the sales manager must be a


superstar. No superstar works for an average boss for long. Are you a little fluffy 
or are you game ready? We’ll look at mindsets and specific actions that must be 
taken consistently for top results.

As you read, mark up the pages identifying the areas that you can apply.

When you read something familiar, the question should not be, “Have I heard this 
before?” It should be, “How good have I been at applying this?” When you read 
something new or something that you might initially disagree with, ask yourself, 
“What would this mean to my results if it was indeed true?” You might also ask, 
“What is it that makes me disagree with this statement?” Perhaps you’ll discover 
that it is some past experience with a previous manager or your personality 
preference that is causing you to dismiss the suggestion.

      I would recommend that when you dismiss an idea or thought presented 
here that you fully understand the “why” behind the dismissal. I know that not all 
of the thoughts presented here will serve every manager in every type of 
company in every situation. I do know however that what I will describe in the 
following pages works when skillfully applied. I won’t have accomplished my 
goal until something in these pages makes you uncomfortable or makes you 
acknowledge that you could be better than you are today as a leader of your 
team. I believe that real change only happens with a bit of discomfort. In some 
instances, I will write out actual wording and phrasing so that you can visualize 
yourself having these conversations with the people on your team. Adapt the


phrasing to suit your personality, but first make sure you understand the impact 
the words are intended to have and then craft your unique style.

      As you take on the role of the Sales Boss, you will be leading the sales 
team but you must remember which team you are on. You are a member of the 
management team. You can’t just be “one of the guys” on the sales team. A 
good relationship with every other department head and managers will be 
essential to getting the best results. Because tools utilized in the field of sales 
change rapidly, and to offer you additional resources we’ve created a place for 
you to download these tools. Please take a moment to register at: 
www.elevatehp.com/thesalesboss.

Let’s get started.


<A>Chapter 2: The Importance of Sacred Rhythms


      I love Jazz and think the jazz club is a perfect metaphor for a top- 
performing sales culture. Think about what happens when you enter a great jazz 
club. In fact, imagine going to the club after a hard day's work when you aren’t in 
the mood to have a good time. What happens? Isn’t it true that before long you 
are tapping your foot to the rhythm? Pretty soon your body starts to sway, a 
smile lands on your face, and as you look around the room, the whole room is 
moving in time to the music. Usually you end up staying longer than you 
intended!


      What’s happened? The rhythm has infected you and you can’t resist. The 
beat tells you what’s happening and pulls you along for the ride. The beat also 
informed the members of the band of the structure, and so a great jazz ensemble 
can allow an individual musician to rift over the top of the beat adding their 
individual gift of expression and then land back with the rest of the musicians 
right on the beat. As the musician takes off on their journey of notes, you can 
feel the rest of the musicians falling in line behind to support the beauty and the 
audience relishes each surprising note. A great performance always takes you 
on a journey even when you enter the club “not in the mood”.

      This is what you are striving for when you build a great sales culture. You 
create an environment with enough motivational power that when a new member 
joins the team they are infected with the rhythm of your team and can’t resist 
getting in sync with the group. It is almost effortless. They can express their 
unique talents “rifting” over the top and adding their gift but in the end landing 
right on the beat of the team. The rest of the company supports them and 
effortlessly integrates them into the team’s successes. You create an 
environment that carries even the seasoned salespeople through the times when 
they are not in the mood to perform at their best. Does this describe your sales 
culture today or are you more like a grade school band trying to find the beat?

      I’ve seen sales organizations that have rhythm and you can see the 
transformative effect it has on people. I was interviewing a sales lady inside of


one such company and she said with excitement: “There is an energy inside the 
building as the month draws to a close. Everyone just seems alive with the 
certainty that we’ll exceed the sales target just as we do every month. You can’t 
walk through the halls without noticing the tempo.” That's magic.

      If you were to walk through the halls of this company you’d notice large TV 
screens with all of their sales results by individuals being constantly updated for 
everyone to see. You would find screens that highlight which customers they’d 
recently lost to competitors and were on a win-back list. This team didn’t like to 
lose and they didn’t often lose as a result.

      Imagine walking into this company as a new salesperson. What would you 
be thinking? You would instantly know that you were about to play on a great 
team and you would perform better as a result. Any smugness you had about 
being a star player at your last company would disappear in your desire to prove 
that you deserve a spot on this A-team. This is the environment you will design 
for your team when you are a Sales Boss. It makes everything easier.

      It’s all in the rhythm. What rhythms have you established for your team 
that informs them about how the game is played at your company? A great 
Sales Boss has well established Sacred Rhythms.

      What do I mean by sacred? One typically thinks of sacred in a religious 
context, but the word means that we hold something as highly valued, deserving


of respect or devotion. To have sacred rhythms within your sales department, 
you must have established rituals that the team can depend on to be there 
consistently. We’ll talk throughout this book about what some of the rhythms 
might be. For instance, your monthly, weekly and daily communications with 
your team form the foundational rhythm. The format and expectations of what 
happens during these meetings become another rhythm. Your team comes to 
depend on this for informing them what the beat is of your company and how 
they sync up with it.

      Here is a challenge I see in many underperforming teams: the manager 
doesn’t have any rhythm! The manager will put a monthly meeting on the 
schedule, but a few days before will move the meeting for some unexpected 
travel or another event. Pretty soon the monthly meeting is a quarterly meeting, 
and this sloppiness seeps into every aspect of the sales team. The weekly 
coaching sessions become weakly done sessions if conducted at all. There is no 
excitement in the halls and no cause for celebration. The month ends as though 
the team has been running on a treadmill set one setting higher than they can 
sustain and then just as they get to the end they start a new month already 
drained.

      The sales manager makes bad hiring decisions. They fill sales roles and 
then need to let them go, impacting the cohesiveness of the team and sucking 
out the willingness of the team to get behind the next sales person. As a result, 
the rest of the company treats any new hire with a “wait-and-see” attitude before


jumping in to help them be a success. The manager loses any credibility. That’s 
not magic. It’s the kiss of death and indeed a slow painful death. A Sales Boss 
doesn’t have that problem.

      You are responsible for the energy and music in your jazz club. Would it 
make you want to dance and stay longer than you intended? Developing sacred 
rhythms means that you decide what needs to happen and that those items are 
sacred. They don’t move, alter or change. Your team understands that's the 
way it happens. They understand the beat and they start to depend on it.

      Not everything can be sacred; you’ll need some flexibility. But, some 
things must be highly valued, deserving of respect and devotion or nothing will 
be. Your role as manager is to decide what is sacred and communicate that 
clearly to your team. We’ll be offering some suggestions within the pages of this 
book and you will want to pick the ones most important to you for the stage of 
development of your team.

      Before we move on, how would you rate your rhythm? Better yet, how 
would your team rate your rhythm?

<A> Chapter 3: The DNA of a Sales Boss

<B> What It Takes To Be Great


The path to being the sales manager in most organizations is familiar.

Typically a particular salesperson is the top performer, and so they are promoted 
to the manager role. Sometimes this works; but more often than not, you will find 
that the newly promoted manager struggles. Some of the very things that made 
them a great salesperson, stand in the way of them excelling in the role as 
manager.

      What makes a great Sales Boss? This is not an easy question to answer 
since on the surface many different personality styles succeed, but I have found 
some key DNA that it seems the best Boss’ all posses.

1.	They have been in a sales role, but usually not as the top performer on that 
team if the team was composed of high performers.


      Why is this? In sales, there are always some very high earners whose 
success in sales defies any checklist or traits that might be taught. They are, to 
use a cliché, “born to be a salesperson”. I call them the Awesome Anomaly.
While nice to have on your sales team, they make a terrible manager. To them, 
sales are effortless and unexplainable. These are usually the ones that have 
been best managed by the manager staying out of the way and letting them work 
their magic. In some cases I have seen these high-earners be the very ones you 
might think least likely to have success, but nonetheless close sales month in 
and month out like clockwork. The problem is that if you make them the sales 
manager, they can’t teach someone else how to do what they do. They’ve never


struggled. It has always come easily to them. They have never had to become a 
student of selling and adopt new and creative, maybe counter-intuitive, ways of 
selling. When push comes to shove, they’ll rescue the new salesperson on the 
team by closing the business for them rather than teaching them a lasting skill.
This high-earner, Awesome Anomaly, the naturally-talented salesperson will 
typically shy away from any management duties viewing any effort at managing 
the team as micro-management, since they felt similarly about anyone who tried 
to manage them in the past. They’ll end up being miserable in the process and 
their effectiveness as a salesperson will also be ruined. It is better to keep them 
as the wise sage on the team that you can turn to for insights into your sales 
process and customers, rather than promote them into the management role.

      Sometimes, despite knowing the low chance of success, a company is 
tempted to “try them out” in the management role thinking they can always move 
them back into the sales role if it doesn’t work out. This is never a successful 
plan. Once you have moved the Awesome Anomaly into the sales management 
role, their ego will now see themselves as a manager. If you require them to 
move back into a sales role, this will be seen as a demotion or a failure. The 
Awesome Anomaly isn't used to failure; they’ve been awesome forever. They’ll 
either resent you when you force the issue or more likely they will eventually 
move on to another company (your competition) as a sales person. This is not 
the outcome you want.


      The best manager is one that has had success in selling but usually not as 
the top person on the team. This person is credible with a sales team because 
they have been there. They understand the fears, the emotions, and the reality 
of the sales world. They’ve experienced the pressures of being required to carry 
a quota. Unlike the Awesome Anomaly since they weren’t naturally gifted, they 
had to be a student of the art of selling in order to have success. They benefited 
from coaching and mentoring. They tracked their activity and behavior to know 
that they were improving. This person relied on their sales manager to help them 
have success and so will know the invaluable role they can play in their team’s 
successes.

2.	They have a high level of emotional intelligence (EQ).


What is emotional intelligence? It is said to include three skills:


Having the ability to identify and manage your emotions and the emotions 
of others;

Having the ability to harness emotions and apply them to tasks like 
thinking and problem solving;

Having the ability to manage emotions, including the ability to regulate 
your emotions, and the ability to cheer up or calm down another person.


      You can see why a person with high EQ makes a better sales manager. If 
unfamiliar with the science of EQ, it would be good to educate yourself on the 
topic so that you can identify those that have it and work to improve your EQ. 
There are some online assessment tools that can help you measure this in 
potential management candidates. You can also take these assessments if you 
are in the role already but would like some help understanding where you need 
to improve your EQ. You can find these assessments through the resources at: 
www.elevatehp.com/thesalesboss.

      In hundreds of studies, EQ is tied directly to earnings even outside of 
sales and sales management. The link between emotional intelligence and 
earnings is so direct that every point increase in emotional intelligence adds
$1,300 to an annual salary. These findings hold true for people in all industries, 
at all levels, in every region of the world. There is no job in which performance 
and pay aren’t tied closely to emotional intelligence. This quality is highly 
important in sales management. Sales and sales management are by nature an 
emotional and stressful job. When the pressure is on to close a sale and you 
lose a prospect that you were counting on to make your number, you need 
someone with EQ in control.

3.	They don’t need the credit. They don’t feed their ego.


      A great sales manager gets satisfaction from celebrating others’ 
successes. In many cases, they are just a bit uncomfortable if they are in the


spotlight of praise. When they are praised, you usually see a great sales 
manager deflecting the praise to people on his team or some other support area 
of the company.

4.	They have a balanced analytical mind.


      What do I mean by this? They aren’t afraid of spreadsheets and data, but 
they also don’t live and die by them. They realize the importance of gut feel and 
can act on it, but don’t take umbrage when the data tells them they should make 
a correction of course. They also are intellectually curious and use data to inform 
their opinions and theories.

5.	They inspire loyalty and can hold the attention of a room.


      A great sales manager has an impact on a group of people. They can 
inspire loyalty from others, are naturally respected and are viewed as a leader. 
Sometimes people will do what is asked simply because of the loyalty they feel 
for the manager. The sales manager must be well spoken and seem comfortable 
in front of a room of people. This quality really divides the very top managers 
from the rest of the crowd! Your sales manager hosts sales meetings, trainings, 
phone calls and in many cases participates in sales calls with your largest 
customers. They need to be able to hold a room better than most people.

6.	They are comfortable sitting in judgment.


      Some people have a hard time sitting in judgment of others. A Sales Boss 
must excel at it. Daily, the Sales Boss will be making judgments about the 
performance, mindsets and abilities of the people on their team and they won’t 
always have a lot of data to back up their opinion. A Sales Boss can be humble 
and a servant leader to their group, but they will also need to be able to set 
standards and then sit in judgment as to whether those standards are being met 
or not. They must be comfortable expressing directly to the salesperson or 
another employee what standard is not being met and what changes are 
required. Someone who is not comfortable doing this will ultimately fail in 
managing a sales team. Notice that I state they must be comfortable. I didn’t 
say they should love sitting in judgment or seek it out! Remember, they don’t 
feed their ego. They simply do not let a standard go unmet without judgment and 
the appropriate coaching, mentoring or action being taken in response. If your 
habit is to revert to email for uncomfortable conversations, then you aren’t fit to 
be the Sales Boss.

      If you have these six qualities, you have what it takes to be at the very top 
in sales management. You can be a Sales Boss! If you are the CEO and looking 
to hire a sales manager, you should immediately disqualify anybody who doesn’t 
hit the top of the chart when compared to these six areas. If you are the Sales 
Manager and you know you lack in one of these areas, recognize that you must 
work harder than most if you want to have the highest level of success: The 
Sales Boss. Let’s move on to the mindsets and specific skills needed.


<B>The Management Code


      I believe in a simple code of management that can serve as a foundation 
for all of your behavior and choices as a manager. These are:

Don’t micro-manage – be actively engaged 
Honesty always – nobody should ever be surprised 
Be authentic – people are people
Be the thermostat- not the thermometer 
Trust & expect the best – but verify 
Believe bigger
The fault is always mine


      When faced with a decision or planning something with your team and 
when evaluating your performance, use the code to make sure you are staying 
on the most effective path to success. A word of caution: Don’t let your view of 
how well you are following the management code be impacted by the 
underperforming salesperson. Don’t let them guilt you into thinking you are 
micro-managing when you are applying pressure. My son always said he had 
cleaned his room until I announced it was inspection time. You will likewise need 
to do a certain amount of inspection of what your salespeople tell you they are 
doing. This is not micro-management.


<A>Chapter 4: The Truth About Humans


      People are unique individuals. Thankfully for those of us tasked with 
managing a team, people are predictably unique. There are some fundamental 
truths that apply to everyone and understanding these truths can significantly 
improve the ease with which you achieve results with your sales team. Prior to 
getting into the logistics of hiring and training a team of salespeople and all the 
minutia that goes into a team, it is important to understand these fundamental 
truths.

      In order to put together a high-performing team, you will need to develop 
your ability to understand humans on an individual level. This means that for all 
of the importance placed on having a great team, you must recognize that the 
team is simply individuals and you must deeply understand those individuals.
You cannot treat everyone the same and expect to have great results. You also 
can’t treat people the way you want to be treated and expect great results. You 
must treat them the way they want to be treated.

      You have to do the messy work of rolling up your sleeves and finding out 
what makes the individuals on your team tick. You can’t hide behind 
spreadsheets or CRM data and call reports to diagnose what is happening.
You’ll need to deeply understand your individual team members.


      Here are five fundamental truths about human behavior. They are beliefs 
that without fail I have seen every highly effective sales manager posses a great 
intuition around.

1.	Things are only good or bad by comparison.


      When a human decides what a standard is or how they feel about 
something they’ll always do so by comparing the present to past experiences or 
beliefs. This insight was brought home to me on a deep level back when I was a 
child knocking on people’s doors for the religious cult. I can remember entering 
one neighborhood that was particularly rough. The trailers were barely suitable 
for human inhabitation. As I approached one of them, I noticed the yard was just 
hard packed dirt and the windows had been broken out and replaced by 
cardboard taped over the openings. I remember distinctly thinking, “Gosh, this 
sure is the American Dream!” with a bit of sarcasm and judgment which is ironic 
since I grew up in a poor family myself. I recall the feeling of pity as I climbed the 
rickety stairs and knocked on the door. A lady answered and I could hear 
children in the background. I launched into my sermon asking her how she was 
doing…thinking I knew the answer.

      What happened next surprised me and left an indelible mark. She broke 
out in the happiest smile and then tears of joy started to roll down her face as she 
told me how thankful she was that she had finally been able to buy this new 
home and was now free from her abusive husband. She described to me how


she finally felt safe with a future for her kids. She shared that she loved having a 
place for them to play as she pointed to the dirt yard. Bam! Her view hit me with 
more impact than if she’d have punched me in the face!

      This was in direct contrast to what I ever could have imagined her thinking 
to be as I had approached her home. I stood speechless and in awe at her 
resilience and viewpoint. It was then that I first understood that things are only 
good or bad by comparison. All of us evaluate things by this process even if 
unknowingly.

      I still remember how excited I used to be to rent a car for travel. It was 
always better than my personal car! But now as time has passed and I’ve been 
able to afford nicer personal cars, I no longer look forward to the rental car.

      Things are only good or bad by comparison. Why is this important to 
understand as a Sales Manager? In order to get the best performance out of 
people, you have to understand how they got to their understanding of what great 
is.

What is a great income? 
What is great effort?
What is a great salesperson? 
What does a great manager do? 
What is a great work environment?


What is a great coach? 
What is great teamwork? 
What is great dedication?

      We could go on and on. In every area, your team member will have 
somehow defined these standards by comparison. Gaining insight into how they 
define great in these and other areas will help you in a couple of ways. First, hire 
people whose comparison for “great” is a good match for the level of great you 
compare to. This alone will save you a lot of time and effort. Second, by 
understanding their point-of-comparison, you’ll be in a position to expand their 
view by exposing them as needed to new experiences that will become their 
expanded standard for great. This is a skill top sales managers have: increasing 
the viewpoint of their best performing sales people so they are always growing 
and reaching new heights. In short, sometimes great simply means, “The best 
they’ve ever seen.” Your job will be to show them greater than they’ve ever 
seen.

      I see this all the time when traveling with sales people. They will believe 
that making a certain number of phone calls or prospecting visits each week is 
great. When I ask them how they came to decide on what number was “great”, 
they usually are unaware of how they came to believe what constitutes great.
When I ask them how many phone calls or prospecting calls the best sales 
person on the team does in a week, they can almost never answer the question. 
When I share that number, they are usually shocked. I’m not critical of this as it


is human nature. The most real comparisons a person makes are not with 
himself and others it is comparing himself to his own experiences. The key thing 
as a manager is to understand this human behavior and the impact it has on your 
team’s success.

      You’ve probably heard the saying; “They were a big fish in a small pond.” 
It makes the point nicely. You must craft your process, your coaching and your 
mentoring to leverage this to your advantage. You must be the keeper of the 
standard and not let the past of your employee dictate what will be considered 
great performance. You must define the size of the pond.

      Don’t think that you are immune from this belief pattern and the resulting 
behavior. Recognize that your own standard is similarly shaped and that you 
believe you are a great manager simply based on the management you’ve 
experienced from others. What if there is a higher comparison point? Could your 
“great” be not so great? Could you have operated in the past as a sales manager 
rather than a Sales Boss?

One of my clients had a yearly sales goal for their sales people of

$650,000. Only some of the team ever got there. How did they decide on

$650,000? If you’ve been paying attention you already know the answer: It was 
the best a sales person had ever done at their company.


      How did this belief impact the success of the business? How did it impact 
the success of individual salespeople? Well, they hired sales people and these 
sales people believed the best they could do was around $650,000 a year 
because they were told that. And the truth is that’s what people did. Human 
nature was once again at play. Once a sales person would get near the magical
$600,000 range they would believe they were doing great and naturally ease up 
the pressure settling right into the $650,000 range at the year’s end.

      I knew from experience (my point of comparison) that a similar company 
within a similar type of market and product price point would achieve $1.2 million 
per sales person in a year. In conjunction with the sales manager, we hired a 
new sales person and simply told her that the goal was $1.2 million and that we 
knew from experience this was possible. We limited the sales person’s exposure 
to the existing team by having her work from a home office.

      The result? By the sixth month point she had sold $700,000 and was well 
on her way with a pipeline that would exceed the goal of $1.2 million. What do 
you think the new point-of-comparison became for that company? I’m not 
advocating arbitrarily raising the bar and hoping for success. This $1.2 million 
was based in reality. The key point of reflection should be: are there areas 
where you or your company have a low bar based on limited points of 
comparison? I can assure you that there are and your job as a manager is to be 
on the lookout for this human trait that can arbitrarily limit your successes.


2.	People are already giving 100% of what they believe they are capable of or 
they have a reason they believe is valid for not doing so.

Please go back and read number two again, it is that important to sink in.

To successfully lead a team of salespeople, you must believe that individually 
they are giving 100% of what they are capable of or they have what they believe 
is a valid reason for not doing so. What does this mean for your coaching and 
mentoring? If you have someone underperforming, do they have a valid reason? 
Remember it doesn’t have to be valid to you, it just matters that they believe it to 
be valid. It might be:

Nobody cares around here anyways. 
The system is unfair.
They don’t pay me enough. 
The product is out of date. 
The market is depressed.

      Your job is to find out what they believe and only then can you start to 
influence a change in behavior. If the issue is one of capability, then your job 
becomes helping them believe they are capable through your training, coaching 
mentoring and feedback. Confidence comes from competence and you will be 
responsible for exposing them to opportunities to increase their competence.


      Truly believing and understanding point two about humans will allow you 
the power to be an influencer without becoming judgmental or negative. If you 
have gotten to the point with someone on your team that you are starting off 
every conversation believing or feeling negative about them, then it is the time 
that you let them go. You will never serve as a good mentor to them and rarely 
does a manager “overcome” prejudices about a sales person’s abilities.

      Whenever you are working to improve a team that you will be doing so 
with a team that already believes they are giving 100%! Asking for and getting 
improvement is not always the easiest of tasks and one that you must skillfully 
implement. The team will likely feel that they are already doing as well as they 
can given the circumstances of the company. Your job will be to get people to 
believe that you want the best for them and that your belief in what they are 
capable of doing is currently higher than their belief.

3.	People love autopilot.


      Have you ever been on a road you’ve traveled many times before and 
arrived at your destination safely only to realize you can’t remember any details 
of the trip? You can’t remember stopping at any of the lights, merging into traffic 
or anything really, but somehow you’ve made it to your destination? If so, you 
understand autopilot. As humans, we have the unique and amazing ability to do 
even complex things on autopilot. In fact, this usually serves us well so our mind


isn’t tasked with thousands of little decisions and we are freed up to think along 
new lines.

      Here is the challenge: Not all of our current actions that we have on 
autopilot serve us well. As a manager, we can start executing our jobs on 
autopilot without being intentional in our thinking and actions. Your meetings, 
emails, phone calls, and pipeline reviews can all be done without thought. Our 
sales people can likewise run their sales activity on autopilot.

      People love autopilot. A Sales Boss will understand this and leverage 
autopilot to get many of the functions of the team happening without much 
thought or intervention. Now we begin to understand why sacred rhythms have 
such power to influence results. On the other side of the coin, the Sales Boss will 
avoid being on autopilot when involved in key critical activities. They will 
recognize when one of their team members is operating on autopilot but is off 
course and needs to take the wheel with some focused attention.

4.	People Need to Belong.


      We know people need to belong instinctively. The difference between a 
manager and a Sales Boss is that the boss knows how to craft an environment 
where people want to belong and where belonging has the added benefit of 
making the person perform at a higher level than they would otherwise. People 
adjust their behavior to fit the norm of the group they want to belong to or the


people around them whose acceptance they desire. This adjusting happens 
without thought and you can use it to your advantage. Rather than you needing 
to be present to enforce the norms of the group, you can craft an environment 
that reinforces the expectations for you.

      As an example, imagine that you are at a sports venue, and you head into 
the bathroom. I know not a pleasant thought and I apologize, but hang with me 
for a minute. When you wash your hands and use the paper towel, you’ll likely 
find yourself shooting the towel for the wastebasket and trying not to touch 
anything on your way out! What happens if you miss? Not a big deal right? You 
would probably just let the missed shot lay there on the floor.

      Now, let's change the environment. Let’s say you are heading for the 
restroom at a five-star restaurant. Isn’t it true that you are much more careful 
when you wash up? If you splash water on the counter, you might even use your 
towel to tidy it up, and my guess is it never even crosses your mind to shoot a 
basket! You adjusted your behavior and standard based on the norm of the 
group you wanted to be accepted by at the time.

      Your team will behave and adjust in a similar manner. No matter if it is a 
family, a sports team, religion, or a cult there are always three aspects that 
maximize a person's feeling of belonging: A unique insider language, Rituals, 
and having an enemy.


<C>A unique insider language.


      Every group has a language that is particular to that group. It might 
include acronyms only understood if you are in the industry, a team cheer or fight 
song, or certain behaviors. There are always language cues that tell a person 
they are in the group. In the cult I grew up in, they wouldn’t use the typical 
religious language of churches: salvation, grace, penance, etc. They had their 
unique labels for these concepts. You could instantly identify other people that 
were part of the group simply by their use of the proper group language. Inside 
industries, you’ll find acronyms for just about everything and usually only people 
“from the industry” get this language. What are the areas of language that are 
unique to your team? Do you understand the subtle bonding power of labeling 
things in a unique way that identifies your company or team?

      One of my previous companies had the pattern of taking Friday afternoons 
and having fun time activities with the whole team. We’ve found this leads to 
creativity and a close bond between employees. In keeping with the idea of 
having a unique insider language, we had fun naming this tradition. We started 
calling it Fractivity after molding the words Friday and activity together. It 
became a part of the language and culture. In fact, the marketing team even 
took it upon themselves to create fun graphic posters each week giving clues as 
to what the Fractivity would be about: Chair races, board games, building egg 
safety harnesses to protect eggs dropped from the rooftop and other fun 
activities. These activities increased the sense of belonging and even years later


if you use the word Fractivity with one of the former employees their eyes will 
light up, a smile crosses their face, and a story is shared amongst them. As a 
manager, look for the areas to create a unique and common language.

      At a boy’s home for juvenile delinquents that I worked with the newer 
students are taught the norms of the group by the older students saying, “Around 
here we...” followed by the norm, such as, “don’t wear saggy pants” or “ask 
permission to leave the table.” The “around here” becomes a part of the 
language culture that signals how someone starts to belong.

<C>Rituals


      The most powerful sense of belonging comes from rituals. Think of 
holidays that mark family or religious tradition and the emotional tie that comes 
from the accumulation of experiences at these rituals. Understanding the rituals 
of an organization tells a person they belong and that they are home.

      What are the rituals of your team? Even small things such as the way you 
start a meeting or hold a company celebration can have an impact. For instance, 
at Amazon Fulfillment Centers each meeting is started with the sharing of a 
safety tip. You’d know that if you belonged! Or at the corporate level each 
meeting is started with the distribution of a one-page topic summary that is 
quietly read by those in attendance silently before the start of the meeting


discussion. These are all rituals. Knowing them and experiencing them 
increases the sense of belonging.

      In one sales organization, their weekly sales meeting starts unprompted 
by a check in that rolls through the group: One person simply starts by stating, 
“Last week I committed to $$ sales and I ended the week at $.” The next closest 
person in the room goes next with no comment on the previous person check-in, 
“Last week I committed to $ sales and I ended the week at $$.” This check in 
continues until it gets all the way around the room with each sales person 
reporting. When everyone has reported in, the manager starts the meeting. This 
ritual of check in tells people they belong and reinforces the company's belief that 
numbers matter.

      In another company, team members were taught to walk the halls and say 
hello to everyone when they first arrived at the office each day and again when 
leaving to say goodnight. Nobody would ever dream of just arriving and lock 
themselves in their office all day. Walking the halls and saying hello, became a 
habit and ritual that created a unique sense of belonging and a culture of human 
kindness.

      You get to decide what rituals your team will have. If you spend some 
time and intention on this, you can create rituals that teach and reinforce while 
filling the powerful need for people to belong.


<C>Having an enemy


      In sports, it might be the other team and in business, another company. 
Nothing gives a more powerful sense of belonging or purpose than having an 
enemy. Give your team something or someone to fight against and they’ll work 
harder and with more skill. It is a proven fact that nothing bonds a group or 
people more quickly than being against something. It is even more powerful than 
being for something. A wise manager understands the power of people’s need to 
belong and uses this need to accomplish the other goals of the organization.
Who or what is your team’s enemy? How good are you at describing that 
enemy?

      John Legere, T-Mobile’s CEO, is an extreme example of this. Known as 
the “bad boy of telecom,” he is often outspoken, calling his competitors “lame” 
and engaging in public twitter battles with his competitors such as Sprint’s CEO 
Marcelo Claure. When he took over a failing T-Mobile, he even changed his 
previous corporate-buttoned-up look of a suit and tie and became famous for 
dressing more like a rock star in pink shirts, leather jackets, and chains. He took 
to calling his company the un-carrier and publicly berating the other companies’ 
sales tactics as unfair to the consumer. He declared war on his rivals. T-Mobile 
would be different. This course was a calculated choice he made to produce 
outsized results and get the attention from media, shareholders and his 
employees that would be needed to produce a change in revenue.


      T-Mobile's market share grew dramatically as a result. In fact in a single 
quarter of 2015, he added 2.5 million subscribers in a very crowded marketplace 
and grew 14% more than any of his competition. Another result of his battle plan 
was that people who identified themselves as rebels joined his sales team and 
worked hard to defeat the enemy. Those that wanted to be corporate-buttoned- 
up didn’t join the team.

      Steve Jobs also understood the concept of an enemy or fostering an us- 
versus-them mentality. Think of his famous commercials depicting a PC and a 
Mac as people with personalities. He depicted the PC as old, rigid and boring 
while the Mac was always cool. These commercials were some of the most 
successful ever, but Steve didn’t just limit this concept to commercials. He 
brought that same sense of Apple being different to all aspects of his company. 
People wanted to belong to Apple.

      Look at your competitors. Do you look, sound and feel to your employees 
as the same thing? If you were in a booth side-by-side at a tradeshow with your 
competitor would it be hard to differentiate you? If so, you haven’t tapped into 
the power of the human desire to fight hard against an enemy. How can you 
define yourself as different and the competition as the enemy?

5.	The only reason that matters is their reason


      This insight is the final truth I’ll mention, but it is perhaps the most powerful 
when fully understood. We must understand why a person on our team shows 
up and works. The only reason that matters is their reason.

Do they want a promotion?

Do they want the experience to move to another company or role? 
Do they need increased income to get out of debt?
Are they worried about retirement or college?

Is there a hobby or vacation that they want to take? 
Do they have family obligations?
Is it ego driven?
Was this job just the best of several bad options? 
What is the “why” that is driving them at the moment?

      Understand their reason, and then make it your reason and you’ll have the 
ability to achieve great results. People know when we are in it for ourselves or 
when we genuinely care about them. Here is a mindset I challenge you to adopt: 
Care more about the personal success of each member of your sales team than 
you care about the company’s goals. The beauty is that when the personal goals 
of your team members are met; the company’s goals are also met. The 
difference is where we start the conversation when coaching. For instance, if the 
salesperson hasn’t hit his sales targets, I can either start talking about the 
company’s need, the company’s metrics, the company’s whatever…or, I can start 
the discussion with how this failure is impacting the goals they have regarding


retirement, college or some other aspect that is important to them. We’ll discuss 
coaching in more depth. For now, it’s simply important to remember these five 
fundamental truths about humans:

1.	Things are only good or bad by comparison.

2.	People are already giving 100% of what they believe they are capable of or 
they have a reason they believe is valid for not doing so.
3.	People love autopilot.

4.	People need to belong.
5.	The only reason that matters is their reason.


<A> Chapter 5: Your First 30 Days as Boss



      With the previous frameworks in mind from Chapter 4, let’s discuss how to 
get started with your new team. For this discussion, I will make the assumption 
that you are taking over as the boss of an existing team that needs to be 
improved. Maybe you were promoted from within and are now managing a team 
you were once were a part of. This change in position can be tricky! If you’ve 
been the sales manager for a while, but haven’t been getting fantastic results and 
you are reading this book then I would suggest the same series of actions, just 
treat today as day one of your job. Forget the past. If you’ve been on the team 
for a while, just preface the actions you will take outlined next with the words, “I’d 
like to talk with you as I am unhappy with the results I’ve been achieving with our 
sales team and could use your insights.” This humility will cause people who may


have judged you poorly to this point to give you some space and a chance to 
show improvement.

      My first instructions will need a caveat. I don’t recommend managing by 
consensus and second I will almost always err on the side of being overly kind to 
the employee. People respond better (in the long term) when you come from a 
place of kindness than of fear. However, my first recommendation for you when 
you take over a new team will seem contrary to this advice.

      Your first mission is to decide who is the person on your team that you will 
fire and do it within 45 days. Have I made you uncomfortable yet? Give them a 
generous severance package and do it with authenticity and as much kindness 
as possible, but do it. You will use the first 30 days to decide who this will be as 
you learn about the team. A team learns a lot about what your values are by who 
gets rewarded, promoted or let go.

      Let me explain the why and the how of making this decision. The instinct 
of a new manager is typically to build consensus, conjure team spirit and have 
people be “thankful that a new person is in charge. It’s about time!” This instinct 
will almost always slow down your progress in getting results from your new 
team. You must remember that you were hired to get results. The best position 
to have your new team is “cautiously optimistic”. They are hopeful that you’ll add 
real value and fix the things that are wrong, but as of now they haven’t decided if 
they like or even respect you yet.


      During this first 30-day period, you will be posting an advertisement for a 
new salesperson. You will be meeting with every person on your sales team, the 
head of each department in the company and administrative support staff as well 
as some customers. You will also be delving deeply into the metrics of the 
company. We’ll discuss the order and content of these meetings and actions.
You will end this 30-day period by firing someone on your team and 
implementing some new sacred rhythms.

      “But wait,” you might say…” what if nobody deserves to be fired?” In my 
years of working with sales teams, I can count on one hand the number of times 
that there isn’t someone on the sales team that isn’t performing or one who is 
performing, but has a caustic and unhelpful attitude that hurts the rest of the 
team. The person fired may be upset for a moment, but it’s likely they’re 
unhappy in the role already and will be much more content in a role that is a 
better fit for them elsewhere. Your team might be the exception, but I doubt it.
Why are you leading this team? My guess is to improve it substantially, not 
incrementally. So ask yourself, “When this team is performing at the highest 
level I’ll be able to bring them to, who won’t be capable of making it?”

      You must do this from a place of authenticity, humility and a sincere desire 
to improve the team. This is not a power play or a show of power. It is an 
appropriate and judicious use of power with a purpose. It is a very effective way 
to reset the standards for the team and show the seriousness of the matter at


hand: increasing sales. You will be doing many things in the first 30 days with 
the mindset of a learner and gaining consensus from the group. Balancing this 
with decisive action will cause the group to see you as fair and inclusive, but also 
decisive and action oriented. It will underscore the fact that change will be 
happening. Having your team understand that you are fair but decisive is the 
view from the team about you that will be most effective to accomplish what you’ll 
need to do in the next six months.

      I am always unhappy when someone needs to be fired from a sales team. 
I believe a company must take seriously finding the right fit when they are in the 
hiring process and then coach and mentor that person to success. Anything else 
is a failure of management. I make this exception in the first 30-days. Someone 
must go. I know I’ll get some disagreement on this point. However, I can tell you 
from experience and observation that the fastest route to a high-performance 
culture includes this unpleasant choice.

      The first 30 days are like a new theater act playing on Broadway. You are 
walking onto the stage and your performance in the first act will influence the 
remainder of your time in the role as sales manager. Plan and execute this 30 
days with skill. You don’t want a poor review from the critics. I’ll suggest some 
key ingredients and the preferred order here, but you will need to adjust them to 
fit your situation. Please notice I did not say, “Adjust them until you are 
comfortable.” You should be uncomfortable.


<B>Getting Started With Your Team- the first 30 Days


      Day one after the announcement of your role is shared with the team, you 
must find a simple way to acknowledge your appointment into the role as Sales 
Boss. This acknowledgment can be through a short email, a company meeting, 
a video call or any method that reaches the entire team. The key points of your 
message:

“I am humbled to be chosen for this important role and to work with a talented 
team of people.”

“Although I have enjoyed successes in the past, I realize that there is much I 
need to learn from you. I will be spending the next weeks meeting with folks and 
learning. After this, I will have more specifics to share with the team and will be 
hosting a company meeting (give the date).”

“You can expect that I will build on the work that has been accomplished before 
me and I will be focused on increasing our success in the marketplace.”

“I take success seriously as I know that none of us can do the things that are 
important such as buying homes, educating our kids, taking vacations or retiring 
without our company being a leader in sales.”


“I will be posting an open sales position today and would encourage anyone who 
knows of qualified candidates to encourage them to apply.”

      You will, of course, infuse this short communication with your style and 
personality, but I believe the key messages above should be communicated 
clearly and passionately. If you are doing this via email (not my first option), you 
might consider including a link to a humorous Youtube video or something that 
will humanize you to those that have yet to get to know you. You don’t want to 
be “the corporate guy.” Be human, be authentic and be direct. Schedule an all- 
company or all-division meeting about five weeks away where you will unveil 
your thoughts and plan of action.

      Next using Chapter 7 and the information regarding posting an open sales 
job, you will want to post the position of the sales person opening and start the 
search process. Finding and hiring a superstar takes time and from now on 
throughout the remainder of your career as Sales Boss, you’ll always keep an 
open pipeline drawing in qualified candidates even when you don’t currently have 
an open position. You never want to be in the position of needing someone and 
having a lengthy delay in placing a great person in the role. You’ll likely have an 
opening at the end of this month anyhow if you are following my advice.

      While you are in this 30-day discovery period, the weekly mechanics of 
running the sales team still needs to happen. What I suggest is keeping existing 
sales meetings that are already on the schedule. Nothing changes. Simply


assign a variety of people on your sales team to lead these meetings and you will 
attend as an observer. This method will keep the existing structures in place, but 
will also give you a chance to observe the skill level of some of the members of 
your team. I would announce this with a simple, “We need to keep things rolling 
while I wrap my head around things here so I’ll ask you guys to take the lead in 
these meetings for the first month. Who wants to volunteer for the first one?”

      Now that this is out of the way, you will need to do a deep dive into the 
inner workings of the company and your sales team. You will not limit yourself to 
just the people you directly manage. You will also meet with, at a minimum, all of 
the department heads. Your discovery of the company should take two parts: 
meeting with people and analyzing data. My suggestion is that your daytime 
hours be used exclusively for meeting with people and you reserve some late 
evening/ early morning hours for data analysis. You need to know the numbers 
and data, but you won’t want yourself labeled as a data-head in the first few 
weeks. Relationships will prove to be more valuable than any amount of data.

      A key part of success in this period is not to sit and talk with your boss and 
have them tell you what they think of all the people on your sales team before 
you’ve had a chance to form your judgments. If you meet with the boss first, their 
impressions will undoubtedly influence your thoughts and you may waste some 
time seeking to validate their thoughts rather than seeking the truth.


      One of the best ways to start learning about the people and processes of 
the company is to meet with the administration and support staff before you meet 
to talk deeply with your boss, peers or department heads. That’s right, start with 
the people that answer the phones and keep the company running operationally. 
They know where all the bodies are hidden! The administrative staff will have a 
surprisingly unvarnished view of the company and while it usually isn’t 100% 
accurate, in my experience, you can bet that the emotional spirit and energy of 
the company can be detected right away by their observations. They are usually 
more than ready to share their insights and nobody has ever asked them. To be 
fair, they have a higher than 80% accuracy in my experience.

      On one consulting assignment, my client asked me to help diagnose some 
of the sales issues keeping the company from delivering high-quality products 
and services to their customers. The client sold through numerous distribution 
channels and also had its independent field sales team. One of the areas of 
concern was that each of the sales channels was cannibalizing some of the sales 
of the other channels. I asked them not to tell me what the full issues were, but 
to give me a couple of weeks to observe the teams and ask them some 
questions. I shared that I would come back in a few weeks to discuss what 
direction our project might take together.

      Guess where I went first? The lobby. I had earlier in the week eaten 
lunch at a restaurant recommended to me by the woman that was answering the 
phone and greeting visitors in the lobby. During our conversations previously


she’d told me they had her favorite banana cream pie. Of course, I brought her a 
slice when I came back to the company’s lobby after eating lunch and she was 
grateful. She didn’t often get a break away from the phones. Quick tip: Always 
be nice to the support staff as they can grease the wheels to speed your 
progress or bring you to a screeching halt!

      This time, I asked her if she could chat for a bit, “off the record.” She was 
only too pleased. She gave me a quick rundown of who was who and who had 
the power regardless of what the titles might indicate. She suggested who some 
of the other support people might be whom I could talk with that would have 
some great insights. I spent the next week and a half touring around and talking 
with all the people she had suggested. As I pulled on the “string” she had 
handed me, it would lead me to numerous discoveries that would prove helpful 
later in my diagnosis and potential remedy.

      A few weeks passed, and it was time to meet again with the executive 
team. I laid out for them some of the things that I had learned while protecting 
the things shared with me in confidence. I was able to articulate many of the 
challenges between departments that were causing the issues and challenges 
the executive team had a concern about. I was also in the position of sketching 
out the start of a successful plan to improve these areas. About midway through 
my presentation, one of the executives said with astonishment, “It seems like 
you’ve been inside our company forever! How did you learn so much in this 
short of time? I’ve been here three years and didn't know some of this.” He had


just paid me a large consulting fee. Do you think he wanted to hear that I took 
his secretaries to lunch and asked them? I told him anyway. It was a lesson 
worth learning and you should also learn it. Talk to the support staff before 
talking to the executive team. If you do this in reverse order, your insights won’t 
be as clear since you will have absorbed the bias of the executive team. You will 
talk to the executive team and their insights will be equally as valuable, but I think 
the order here is important to avoid weighted biases. It is worth mentioning that 
one of the things we helped implement for the company saved them ten million 
per year in annual expenses. This idea came directly from a secretary.

      So what should these discovery conversations cover? I’ll give you a short 
list of the types of questions for each type of person you are meeting with just to 
get you started. Give it some prior thought related to your specific company and 
add that to this list of questions. These will be general in nature. It is important 
that you bring your full EQ to these meetings and guard against any pontification 
on your thoughts and ideas. These must be learning sessions. Bring your 
curious self, not your teaching self or your ego.

Questions for support staff might include:

How long have you worked here?

What other departments and roles have you had here?

What areas do think most important about the work your department does? 
What ends up being the most frustrating thing?
How long has that been a problem?


What have you (your department) tried to do to fix it? 
Did that work?
Where did you work previously? 
What did they do better than us? 
What do we do better?
What does your group think about my sales team? 
Do they deserve that view in your opinion?
I’m curious, do you know (name of the salesperson)? 
What has been your experience with them?
What is their personality?
How often do they interact with your group?
If you were in charge of my sales team and could change something what would 
you change?

      Hopefully, this list gets you started thinking of some additional questions 
you’ll ask. You might find that some will be bashful and give you a noncommittal 
answer such as, “I’m not sure.” Remember that they may not have been asked 
their opinions and they haven’t learned to trust you yet. I find that in those cases 
if you’ll gently prod them with humor and smile and say something like, “That’s ok 
if you had to guess—I’m not holding you to it!” They’ll usually relent and give you 
their opinion.

      The questions for the department heads will be very similar and include 
the ones above, however, I would also include questions such as:


When you started here, what was the first thing you saw that you needed to 
change?
How did that go?

How did you approach it? 
What was people’s reaction?
What is the most important issue facing your team now? 
What do you think I’ll need to do to be successful in my role?
Are there any unwritten rules I should be aware of at the company? 
Tell me about the people who have been in my role previously…
If you could replicate one of my team members who would it be? Why? 
Is there anyone on my team that you think won’t make it or is hurting the 
company? Why?
When I need help from your group, what’s the best way to approach getting that 
help?

      When meeting with these department heads, you will also have asked 
them to give you a presentation or overview of their group as it relates to sales. 
So the marketing team would give you an overview of the marketing strategy, 
advertising spend, etc.

      Continue to set up meetings and ask these types of questions and listen to 
their presentations until you’ve gotten through all of the key department heads 
and the key support staff. What you will find is that a common theme will emerge


and you will have a good insight into the state of affairs as it is today. Be 
cautious that you do not accept everything you hear as true, but simply honor the 
knowledge as the sincere viewpoint of the person that shared it with you. You 
must do the work of deciding over time if that view is accurate and helpful to your 
goal of building a successful sales team. I would also caution you to treat these 
conversations as confidential and “off the record”.

      You will observe that I have suggested some meetings and that these also 
come before you spend much time with your team. You will be interacting with 
your team during this period, but the deep questions with them will usually come 
nearer to week three than week one. This time gap allows you to get a sense of 
things before you become attached to people on your team. It is always true that 
you will naturally like some members of your team better than others and that this 
propensity will cause you to judge things differently. I don’t think we can ever 
eliminate this entirely, but we must be on guard against it. Some of the best 
members of my sales team have sometimes been people I didn’t want a social 
relationship with or didn’t connect with on the deepest level. We were different 
personalities, but both of us were very capable at our jobs. Be careful that you 
don’t dismiss a person’s excellence just because they don't perform in your 
preferred style. Start intermixing deeper more focused conversations with your 
individual salespeople as you near the end of week two and enter week three.
Avoid giving your thoughts and opinions. You must remain in learning mode. 
When people finally learn your thoughts on the matter at hand, you’ll want to do it 
in a controlled and planned way, which we will discuss shortly.


      It must also be your goal during these initial weeks to meet face-to-face 
with some of your customers. You should have these customer meetings and 
include people from your sales team. I would suggest no less than ten customer 
visits. While you are on these customer visits also ride-along on a prospecting 
call with your sales person when possible. Let the salesperson run these 
meetings so that you get the double benefit of meeting the customer, but also 
observing the style and approach of your sales person. Try to do these visits 
with a good sampling of the sales team. Depending on the size of your team you 
may be able to include a visit alongside each of your team members, which 
would be ideal. Don’t give coaching on these visits, just focus on the customer 
and learn a bit about the sales person. After all, will it serve you better for your 
salesperson to tell you how they do it or for you to actually see it? When you are 
in the field traveling with your sales team turn off your phone. Agree on set break 
times that you both will catch up on emails and phone calls but model 
uninterrupted attention.

      I’d like to share with you how I keep organized with all of these interviews 
and such. I use Evernote. Evernote is an amazing tool that allows you to 
organize your life. Not only can you take notes, you can also attach websites, 
files, audio recordings, pictures or just about anything else right into Evernote.
The magic (and it does seem like magic) is in how you can later access the data. 
When I take a note it stamps the note with the location I am at or guesses based 
on my calendar what this note might be related to. When I return to a physical


location it pulls all of the notes from the last time I was at the location and makes 
them readily available. I can record conversations right from within Evernote. I 
could go on-and-on, but let’s just suffice it to say that if you don’t have a good 
system then you should try Evernote. And if you are “old school” and still like 
paper and pen, you can still do that and have it show up as a searchable 
document in Evernote. This is super helpful if when reflecting on the meetings 
you have held you need to find the person that shared such-and-such with you.

      Let’s turn our attention to the data analytics. If the company has a great 
CRM system, you will want to run some reports that will help you. My experience 
is that poorly run teams tend to have sloppy data. You’ll soon discover what the 
case is with your company. Here are some key data points that I think are 
imperative to look at:

How many salespeople has the company hired in the last five years? 
How many have the company fired?
What’s the average length of employment for a sales person?

What is the average sales of a new salesperson historically at years: 1-5? 
What is the average yearly per person sales average for the sales team? 
What is the average for the top performer?
What is the average for the bottom performer?

How long does it currently take to train a new salesperson to full capacity? 
What is the current hiring process?
How long does it historically take to hire someone?


How long does it typically take the company to fire someone who doesn’t 
perform?
How many new customers is the sale team bringing on each year? 
What percentage of sales is to repeat customers?
What is the average sales total of an order by niche? 
What are the current steps in the sales process?
Are the steps clearly defined?

How long is the sales process from start to sale? 
What is the size of the sales prospect universe? 
What percentage of the industry do we represent? 
What is our total proposal volume?
What’s the proposal process?

How long does it take to turn around a quote? 
What is our win/loss percentage?
If we travel as a sales team, what percentage of time is spent traveling? 
How does this amount of time traveling compare between team members? 
Is there a travel time/ sales success connection?
What types of prospecting are done by the team?

What percentage of time do individual salespeople spend prospecting? 
What training collaterals are available?
What sales collateral is available? 
What is the web traffic?
What is the conversion rate on web leads?


How many leads does the team receive? 
When we win, why do we win?
When we lose, why do we lose?

What is our sales overhead per new sale? 
What are our customer service scores?
What are our delivery times?

How well does our CRM support the needs of sales? 
What are the regular meetings the team holds?
What ongoing training has been provided by the company in the past? 
What is the current compensation plan?
Is the current compensation plan effective? 
When was the compensation plan last changed? 
What impact did the change have?
How well was this change in compensation received by the team? 
What is the current sales forecast?
Where are sales in comparison to the budget? 
How was the forecast prepared?
How likely are we to achieve forecast?


      The list above is just a start. You should become a serious student of 
each area of the sales team. You must commit to learning as much as possible 
and as fast as possible. In the upcoming months, your knowledge and insights 
will undoubtedly deepen, but you must become functionally literate in the things 
affecting your sales team and the results they achieve so that you can start


implementing a plan even if it is not yet perfect. You should have a working 
knowledge in the first three to four weeks. Having a working knowledge may 
seem like a huge task so I will share with you what my mentor would say to me 
whenever he would give me a bunch of things to get accomplished in a short 
period. He was fond of saying, “I know you can’t get all of this accomplished 
today, so feel free to work all night!”

Next, take a working vacation. As you get to the end of your three-four weeks 
since becoming the sales manager, you need to schedule yourself for a three- 
day vacation. I’m not talking a complete vacation away on a tropical island. I 
have a working vacation in mind, although if it happens to end up on a beach 
somewhere that’s a bonus! You will want to set aside three contiguous days to 
work outside of the office environment and be away from your phone or emails. It 
is even better if you can schedule this to be overnight and away from family.

      This three-day period will be your time to finish digesting all that you have 
learned and to put together your plan for the sales team. How will you take them 
from where they are today to the very top end of sales cultures? In three days, 
you will emerge with the foundations of the plan that you will execute. You may 
choose to do differently but here is a sample of how I would spend the three 
days:

Day One


      Review all of your notes from every meeting you’ve held. Now is when 
you’ll be happy you have Evernote! Are there any recurring themes? Do any of 
the items strike you as true based on the data and your gut-feel experience?
What areas are critical to address in the next 90 days? Which items could you 
place on a longer-term plan? How might you correct these areas over time?
What areas that are already going great could you leverage for further success? 
Review the data. What conclusions have you drawn?

      Force rank your sales team not by current sales numbers, but by potential 
one year after your plan is in place. Are there any that can’t make it? Are there 
any that shouldn’t make it? Use your insights to determine if your top seller is the 
best or is there some other circumstance that can account for their success such 
as a large legacy client that predates the sales rep, a choice territory, greater 
internal support, etc.

      Who is on your sales team that if the other executives learned that this 
person was leaving they would want to fight hard to keep them? Who is on your 
sales team that nobody would worry if they learned that person was leaving to a 
competitor?

      Does the current way the team is structured and goes to market make 
sense? What if any changes need to be made to your process? For instance, if 
there is an inside team and an outside team does that arrangement make sense


going forward? If the territory is split by geography, does that make sense or 
would a split along product lines deliver greater results?

      Where is the single greatest area of sales increase that you can achieve in 
the shortest period? You’ll want to show a quick win or progress as this will carry 
you through complex changes that might take a while to see a payback or that 
might face some internal resistance.

      If you were starting the team and organizational structure from scratch, 
how would you build it? Compare that version with the current version. What 
would a transition look like if it were possible? If the cost, pain or time makes it 
undoable what areas might be adjusted to look like the ideal? Is there an 
intermediate step that you can take?

What is the ideal size of your team in 90 days? What about in one year?


      Are the current sales forecasts achievable? If not, how do we make 
adjustments? Is it too low? Should we reset a higher standard right away?

      Once you have spent some time in this mental review that you will likely 
have been percolating on since the start, you should sit down and craft a story 
about the current state of the company and how the new Sales Boss helped to 
create a winning team. Play it out much like you would a stage play. Visualize 
yourself taking the action, speaking to the team, executing the steps of a new


plan. What could go wrong? What must go right? What language would you 
use to explain the plan and articulate the vision? Is it compelling enough?

Sketch the outline of your plan:


Who will be fired? 
Who might be fired? 
Who needs retraining?
What critical areas must we be focused on? 
Who is our enemy?
Who are our heroes? 
What are we the best at?
Who is your best player and are they the absolute best in our industry or just our 
best?
How do we win?
What systems should be in place to support a win?
What sacred rhythms should you implement for your team? 
What rituals does your team have?
What language will help them increase the sense of belonging?


That’s a lot of work. Take a nap. How do you feel after sleeping on it?

Make whatever changes you need to make to your plan.


Day Two


      You will now want to run your plan past a few people. Doing this will give 
you practice in how to articulate the plan in a clear way, will allow you to hear the 
types of questions, thoughts, and objections your plan may face and will allow 
you to gain some early feedback. Approach people one-to-one so they have the 
ability to give you their unique insights and so you avoid group-think. Here are 
the specific people I suggest you talk with today:

      Your boss or “The Boss”, the person whose support you’ll need if you plan 
to implement the plan. An outside mentor with experience, perhaps a seasoned 
Sales Boss from another company. Another key department head within the 
company whose support would influence others in the company, and finally the 
person on your sales team with the most unofficial influence on the other team 
members.

      Working your way through this list and the conversations you have will 
provide you with very valuable insights. It also will serve the purpose of market 
testing your ideas since you know that what you discuss with them won’t likely 
stay confidential. The sales person you talk to will leak a bit of your plan to the 
rest of the team. This intentional sharing has the advantage of letting them get 
used to the ideas before their formal introduction. If there is an extreme reaction, 
you’ll likely hear it before you make the plan formal. In fact, many times you’ll get 
these early warnings directly from the support staff that you spent so much time 
talking to at the outset. They’ll be rooting for you to have success and will point


out a few landmines as they see them. This reaction doesn’t necessarily mean 
you’ll change your plan (although you might), it simply will help you understand 
what areas you will need to sell better than others.

By the evening of the second day, you’ll have plenty of things to reflect on.

Make some final adjustments to your plan.


Day Three


      You should spend today planning the content of the meeting you will hold 
with the company outlining your plan and course of action. You may not share 
every detail, but you will want to give thought to how and what you can share.
When they hear your presentation, they should understand how you arrived at 
your decisions and in many cases should even feel they are the obvious 
conclusions. They should be clear about the impact of the changes, the direction 
you plan to go and why. They should know the name of the enemy and what 
“greatest” means. They should know the consequence of failure to the future of 
the company. This presentation should leave them feeling inspired and trusting 
your process for making a decision even if they don’t agree with what you’ve 
decided. If you intermix some of the stories you heard from them when you met 
with them individually, then you will be telling them their story and they’ll connect 
with it emotionally to support you because you listened.


      This presentation needs emotion, emotion, and more emotion. Passion 
must also play a role in the way you design the presentation. You must tell a 
story full of emotion. Where we are today. Where we need to be. How we will 
get there. You’ll introduce a few of the new sacred rhythms and rituals that your 
team will live by in the upcoming months. Tell them why you believe in rituals, 
perhaps sharing one of your childhood family rituals that you cherished when 
growing up. Sharing these personal details will humanize you and create the 
start of intimacy with your team.

Data should be present, but only to highlight the story. Pick some bold visuals to 
represent ideas not Powerpoint bullets. If the story is, “Our house is on fire and 
we need major change!” The data can show the precipitous drop in market share 
and the jobs that the company will be losing if the trend is unchanged. If the 
story is, “We’ve been the leader, but now we are at a plateau.” The data can 
show that story, but then you must give examples of other companies that failed 
to break out of the plateau and others that were successful.

      Do this as an exercise: Write a one-paragraph summary of your story and 
give the story a one-sentence title. Is it compelling? If not, start over. This story 
will serve as the foundation for all the changes you’ll be making with the team.

      Now you should choose someone to share the story you've created. Are 
they compelled or bored after hearing it? Work today to get the story right. Plan


how you will share this at your first meeting with the full group and how you’ll 
reinforce it in upcoming months.

Write your 90-day to-do list. Know that it will change, so continue to be flexible.


Finally, who is it that you plan to fire?


Nobody? I’m fine with that choice if you arrived at it after a vigorous search and 
real consideration of the option. You have a problem though if you are choosing 
not to take this step because you are uncomfortable or believe that everyone 
deserves a second chance.

      More likely, you will have a name or perhaps even a few names that won’t 
be fit for your team. Choose one. You should only let one person go at this point. 
I have found that a mass firing and the emotional impact on the remaining team 
that comes with it to be too severe to overcome quickly. Usually when you pick 
one person, the remaining part of the team and indeed the company has known 
for a long time that the person wasn’t a fit. All will be thankful that someone 
finally acted! If there are others who need to go, wait a bit to assess the impact 
the first action had on the team.

      Meet with the salesperson and let them go from employment. There is no 
need for a long discussion. You are giving them a generous severance package 
and you wish them well. You have simply decided that their skill set doesn’t


match what you need in the sales position for that territory moving forward. Of 
course, this book doesn’t cover all of the employment law for every region, so 
please make sure that you have followed any employment law regarding 
terminations that are in effect for your area.

      Finally, you are prepared for your first company meeting where you will 
unveil your plan. Be bold, be visionary and be authentic. Lay out your plan 
confident that you have the vision and skill necessary to lead your team to 
greatness. The daily, weekly and monthly activity now starts in earnest!

Let’s look at some of the critical areas involved:


Hiring salespeople 
Onboarding and training 
Coaching and mentoring
Conducting effective sales meetings 
Keeping score through metrics 
Pipeline management
Financial forecasting 
Compensation planning

Since you now have an open position and you should have been lining up some 
candidates, we’ll start with the hiring process. You must commit never to hire 
anyone that is not a super-star. It might mean a slower process to get a full


roster of sales people, but in the end it is worth it! Hiring is not something you 
can leave to Human Resources; you need to own the process from start to finish!

<A> Chapter 6: Understanding the Market for Hiring


      What is this mythical creature called the superstar salesperson? If you’ve 
ever had one on your team, you know the value that they add. They consistently 
out-perform their peers. They relentlessly slay dragons, bring home the bacon 
and make it look easy. They live to sell. This chapter is designed to help you get 
them on your team. Once you have one, make sure you take good care of them. 
They will make everything else you and the company needs to do easier.

<B> Why Hiring A Superstar Salesperson Is Tough


      Perhaps nothing is more difficult and more important for the success of a 
business than hiring the right salespeople. Remember in any business nothing 
happens until somebody sells something! Nobody pays their mortgages; no kids 
get sent to college, no retirements get funded until the salesperson can close 
business and get revenue coming in the door. Unfortunately for many 
companies, hiring a salesperson has become a bit like buying a boat. The 
happiest day being when one is bought (hired) and the second happiest being 
the day it is sold (fired).


      Just consider your experience. You decide the time is right to add a 
salesperson to the team and you excitedly begin tallying up how an ”X” increase 
in the business will solve so many of the challenges facing your company. You 
know that additional customers and revenue will create the exact thing your 
company needs right now to achieve. You post the job, you sort through 
resumes, you spend time interviewing and eventually you have what you believe 
to be the perfect candidate. You make a job offer. What happens next?

For many companies the honeymoon period starts, but it wears off quickly!
The dreams we had of increased sales languish and we wonder what went 
wrong. We start to question our decision. We think, “Maybe just a little more 
coaching or more time and then they’ll start to perform?” Eventually you start to 
regret the decision and as you shell out paycheck after paycheck to a mediocre 
salesperson, you start to resent them. Eventually, you fire them or they quit. And 
now the process starts again, only this time you are a bit more jaded.

      If this sounds familiar, pay particular attention to this section. We’ll identify 
some common pitfalls that occur in the hiring process. We’ll also talk a bit about 
what things could be going on that are hurting your chance to add a sales 
superstar to your team. Let’s be clear, superstars do exist. Let’s commit to hiring 
them.

      Great salespeople are always in demand. The problem is that there are so 
few of them. Even in a tough economy, a company will rarely ever let go of a


sales person that is consistent in generating revenue and the reason is 
somewhat obvious, right? When times are tough, a company will downsize the 
least productive salespeople. They let go of the ones who could do ok while 
everyone was buying, but who struggle when they have to earn or influence the 
buying decision. This reality means that as the one making the hiring decision, 
you face a supply-side shortage. You must be able to lure away the top talent 
from your competition or understand some of the market forces that are in play 
that allow you to nab a superstar that is between jobs. Just understanding that 
an unemployed sales person is an automatic red flag will improve your odds of 
success. Notice I didn’t say, “No great sales person will be unemployed.” I 
simply said, “It’s a red flag.” Your process must be designed to get to the truth of 
why they are unemployed.

      Understand the psychology of the situation. Put yourself on the other side 
of the equation. Let’s say you are the superstar sales person. What’s your life 
like right now? Pretty good, I’d imagine! At your company, it’s likely that you are 
viewed as a hero. You are pulling in some good cash, winning awards and travel 
vacations because of your super performance. Chances are, you can do pretty 
much what you want as long as you keep delivering those stellar sales numbers. 
You’ve probably built up some repeat business, you have your routine down, and 
you know just which levers to pull to get things done for your customers. Do you 
see my point? Why am I, “Super-star” switching jobs? I’m usually not.


      Even when tempted by another great looking position at some other 
company, a superstar considers things pretty carefully. We’ve all heard the 
phrase, “Better the devil I know than the one I don’t!” This saying is certainly true 
when a salesperson has succeeded in selling for a company. So beware of the 
unemployed.

      Even a mediocre salesperson is an A-player when it comes to selling 
themselves. They’ve been to enough sales training that they’ll be able to talk 
prospecting, pipelines, sales ratios, and closing techniques. They just won’t be 
able to do it at a superstar level. The good news is that selling is a very metrics- 
driven process, and a good hiring process will uncover the truths.

      If you are hiring someone that is unemployed, you must understand the 
reason. Possible reasons that a super-star is unemployed or looking elsewhere 
include:

1.	Their current company just went through a merger or buyout. (Carefully 
watching the industry news can help you identify potential targets for sales 
candidates.)

2.	Relocation requirements.


3.	A new sales manager has been put in place, and a conflict exists (be 
suspect on this one).


4.	Significant market changes that the sales person’s company has not 
kept pace with has decreased sales opportunities. (Lack of product 
innovation as an example.)

5.	The company has significantly changed or capped the earning potential.


      There are more reasons that I haven’t listed, but hopefully you can see the 
common thread here. Something has changed that is outside the control of the 
sales person that they are not in a position to influence or change. They simply 
want to make money. They’ve done the calculus; the rules and opportunities 
have changed, so they are looking elsewhere.

      Don’t believe the simple statement: “I’m just looking for a more challenging 
assignment.” Rarely, is this true. I’d almost go so far as to say never. A good 
hiring process will account for uncovering and getting to this vital truth. We’ll 
discuss the specifics later in this chapter.

      Before we get into the specifics of making the hiring decision and the 
process, let’s discuss one other important aspect: you and your company. 
Maybe you have managed to hire a superstar, but you’ve blown it in the 
execution. Think this is impossible? Think again. Make certain that you have 
created the right sales conditions for success.


      As an example, imagine you went to the plant nursery and purchased a 
beautiful plant that looked healthy and vibrant. You take that plant home, plant it 
in a pot on your porch and then within weeks it starts to shrivel. Is the only 
plausible explanation that you’ve purchased a bad plant? Not likely! You may 
have planted it in the wrong soil, placed it in too much sunshine, failed to feed it 
correctly or any other host of issues. At least be open to the fact that when a 
salesperson fails, it can be your fault.

      You must be the kind of company that can support a superstar and you 
have to be honest about the selling environment you are asking them to sell in. 
Does your marketing team provide plenty of well-qualified leads? If not, be 
honest and hire the salesperson that is great at generating his or her own. Will 
your new salesperson have to service the accounts they’ve sold in addition to 
having made the sale? It is your job to do an honest evaluation of your selling 
process (or lack thereof) and be certain that the person you are hiring has done 
well in a similar environment. If they haven’t made a cold-call in years, they’ll 
struggle if that’s what you require for success in your company. This concept is 
true no matter how talented they are in other areas of selling.

      Focus on the selling environments that they were successful in previous to 
now. Great Sales Success + Mediocre Environment = Great Sales Person. On 
the other hand, if their environment was: Great Sales Success + Great Selling 
Environment it could = mediocre salesperson if your selling environment isn’t 
equally as great as the company they are coming from. The key here is: Great


selling results don’t always mean they were a great salesperson. It only 
sometimes means that. It could also mean they were in a great company who 
was a leader in their niche. They could have been working for the lowest cost 
option or any other host of variables that made them have some measure of 
selling success. It’s your job to uncover the truth through your hiring process.
<A> Chapter 7: Step-By-Step to Hiring a Sales Superstar

<B>The Sales Selection Process


      Running a great selection process requires the right mindset and proper 
preparation. The enemy of great is the rushed process, “I just needed someone 
yesterday!”

      I’d like you to imagine that you were getting ready to invest a half-million 
dollars of your company’s money or better yet think of investing your money.
How carefully would you consider the investment? In most cases more money, 
expense, and revenue hinge on making a good hiring decision for a sales 
position than just a half-million. Treat it with the importance it deserves. Here are 
the critical steps in the process of hiring a sales super-star:

<B> Design A Well Written Job Posting


      Take the time to identify on a highly granular basis what skills are required 
to be successful. Describe these skills clearly in the job advertisement rather 
than just describing the industry or product they’ll be asked to sell.


What type of prospecting will they do? 
What type of record keeping will they use? 
What support structure will they have?
Is it a complex sell?

Will they be selling once to an individual? 
Is it a multi-call sales process?
Will they be presenting to larger groups? 
Is it an RFP process?
Are you the highest priced solution? 
Are you the lowest cost solution?
How intense is the competition?
Where do you rank in size and quality to your competition?

Are they expected to find new clients and pass then on to customer care? 
Will they sell and service the client?

      You should be asking and answering all of these types of questions as 
you create the job posting. Your goal is for the sales person to see past 
successes in light of how they match up to your requirements and self-select out 
of the process if they don’t think they have what it takes.

      The job posting should include a realistic earning figure and expectation. 
When I say “expectation,” I don’t mean they could expect to earn this much. I 
mean, you expect them to earn that much or they’ll not be working for your


company. There is a big difference in the way you convey that number. A super- 
star doesn’t want or need blue-sky numbers. They want real earning 
expectations.

      You might word this portion dealing with compensation this way: “A 
successful candidate will have a history of making $90,000 per year of which 
30% should have been variable compensation and a need to make $125,000.”

      Once you’ve decided they might be the right person to hire, you should 
always verify their earnings claim by asking for their past W-2 IRS form or 
whatever form is available in your country that will help verify income. They’ve 
done what they claimed they have or they haven’t. When do you want to find 
out? After you’ve hired them or before? Try this to encourage honesty, “If we 
decide that you would be a fit for our sales position and you decide you’d like to 
accept the role, we’ll be asking you to verify your past earnings through your W-
2.” My experience has suggested that this quickly gets more honest answers 
right from the start!

      Describe your industry, but don’t limit the industries that you’ll accept. You 
might say: “Experience selling to (your industry segment) helpful but not 
required.” It is more important that the daily selling activities that you will require 
of them have been a part of their recent experience and success than specific 
industry experience. Obviously if you can get both, that’s ideal. But never give 
industry preference over activity successes. As an example, one of my clients in


the food processing industry needed someone who could cold-call new prospects 
consistently. They could have limited themselves to sales people that had 
previous experience in the food processing industry. Instead, they focused on 
the need to make cold-calls. They ended up hiring someone with no industry 
experience, but that made cold-calls every day in the recruiting industry. That 
hire ended up outperforming any previous sales hire.

      Remember always to hire primarily for previous relevant types of sales 
activity and not primarily industry experience. Don’t limit the candidates that will 
apply by arbitrarily adding qualifications that aren’t an absolute necessity. For 
instance, many companies will state that they require a college degree. Ask 
yourself, “If this person is a super-star and can sell in our environment to our 
clients, do I care if they have the degree?” If the answer is, “No, I don’t” then 
don’t include it in the posting. Some of the best business people and sales 
people haven’t been to college. That is why many times they are in sales and 
out earning the college grad with the MBA. They knew if they wanted to earn a 
healthy paycheck, they had better learn to sell.

      Finally, you will also want to include in the job posting a request such as, 
“Please provide in your cover-letter an example of a recent selling success 
you’ve had that demonstrates your suitability for the role.” This request serves 
two purposes. One, in the age of online applications, you will get hundreds of 
applicants who are mass applying for anything with the term sales in the job title. 
By adding this tiny request, you will know they’ve read your posting. Second, it


gives you an insight into how they approach sales and how they communicate. 
Here is a recent job posting created for a client (edited to protect company 
name):

      Sample Company is seeking to add two sales people to their team. 
One will be based in the Mid-Atlantic and another in a South East territory. 
Ideally the successful candidates will be in place prior to the start of 2016. 
Our hiring process is thorough, but moves quickly for the right candidate.

Mid-Atlantic: VA, WV, KY, NC, SC, TN 
Southeast: GA, FL, AL, MS, TN,

About You

      You are an accomplished salesperson with the ability to work from 
a home office located within your assigned territory and travel to visit 
customers and prospects 60-70% of the month. You have an ability to 
prospect consistently on the phone, in person and at company trade 
events. Knowledge of the packaging industry primarily in food, meats, 
medical and bakery markets is preferred, but not required if you have a 
history of sales success in a complex selling environment, the ability to 
learn quickly and can retain knowledge. You are adept at selling solutions 
that exceed $200,000 to upwards of $1MM. You are well spoken, can 
command a room’s attention, and have high energy levels. People 
consider you a leader and you consider a sales territory as your personal


business. You are accustomed to tracking your sales behavior and metrics 
as a source of effectiveness and improvement. While already operating at 
a high-level, you understand and accept training and coaching as a source 
of constant growth.

      You must have a verifiable history of earning in excess of $90,000, 
and a need to quickly surpass $150,000. Our top earners in the field 
regularly surpass $200,000 in yearly earnings excluding company 
benefits. Salespeople that fail to earn at a high level are not kept at 
Sample Company as our reputation, line of equipment and sales leads 
provide ample opportunity for selling.

      Please include in your application a cover letter with the answer to 
this question: What do you consider the key to sales success and what is 
one of your greatest selling successes to date? Applications without this 
in the cover letter will not be considered. Feel like this job is perfect for you 
but you don’t fit one of the criteria? Sell us on why you should be hired 
anyway.

About Sample Company

      Sample Company is a leader in complete packaging solutions to 
the food, medical device, personal care and industrial industries. For over 
15 years, Sample Company has worked closely with our customers to 
engineer superior intelligent primary and secondary solutions. Our goal is


to make our customers more competitive by becoming more efficient. Our 
installed base speaks for itself. We will not shy away from a project due to 
complexity; rather we address each component head on. Our access to 
global solutions makes Sample Company a forerunner in packaging 
technologies today. Sample Company offers competitive salary, 401K, 
and benefits package and full headquarter support.

--- end of sample posting ---


      Did you notice the focus on the type of person rather than specifics of the 
company position? This type of ad stands out amongst the clutter on hiring 
websites and it serves as a magnet for top performers. Here is an actual portion 
of a cover letter submitted by an applicant in response to the posting above:

      “Just reading the way the job roles were “pitched” has created a 
high level of interest in Sample Company. I have a solid history of selling 
systems and consumables to national and international customers. Having 
studied the company Website also, I am convinced it would be worthwhile 
to meet the hiring managers to communicate how my abilities and sales 
skill set would benefit Sample Company. I like that the job pitch was not a 
long job description, but rather lays down a challenge to prospective sales 
employees that success is rewarded, but failure is not supported. I really 
like the way this was described, having confidence to exceed goals within


a direct and pragmatic company culture. One example of selling success I 
can give is...”

      Now that you have a solid job posting, go post the job. I won’t cover the 
many job sites available, as it’d be out of date as soon as I wrote it and 
effectiveness varies by industry and geography. Your network should be able to 
recommend some solid places to post. Don’t neglect the trade journals and 
websites of your industry along with the same sites for parallel industries; 
meaning industries that have a very similar selling process (not the product) as 
you have in your company.

      In addition to posting the job, you should email the posting to as many 
people in your network as possible with a brief note asking them if they know 
anyone that fits what you have described. A word of caution is in order here. If 
someone in your network recommends a salesperson to you, it is very easy to 
allow how you feel about the person making the referral influence how you rate 
the candidate. Sometimes I see companies short cut their hiring process when 
dealing with someone referred to them. They almost always regret it. No matter 
the source of the candidate, always follow your process. Remember that your 
network has likely referred the person because they like the person or want to be 
of help to you. They usually haven’t made the suggestion because they have 
any knowledge of how well the person will do in your company selling your 
product to your customers.


      Now that you’ve posted the job, you should also pro-actively reach out to 
targeted people at other companies whom you may want to consider for the 
position. Remember that the very best salespeople aren’t usually in the market, 
so you’ll have to lure them to take a look at your opportunity. If you want to 
increase your odds of successfully luring someone, you can go back and read 
the list of reasons why a super-star might be changing jobs and target those 
companies. For instance, has there been a recent merger in your industry? If 
so, it’s likely that at least a few top-performers are unhappy with the changes at 
the new company and might be open to a job change. The trade journals are a 
good source for this type of target.

      Spend some time on LinkedIn reaching out to potential targets. If you pay 
for the recruiter version or any of the premium memberships, you’ll have 
advanced search features that can help you identify potential sales people. In 
fact, you can even search by past companies that they’ve worked for if you know 
a company's reputation for producing great sales people. Be creative and find 
people to place in your process. Tip: LinkedIn limits your view of people to three 
degrees, so it’s very helpful to expand your searchable network by joining groups 
or paying for the recruiter’s version.

An important note here is that you will want to keep the process moving.

Don’t wait until all the candidates have applied before you do the next step. 
Think of the entire process as a river that is constantly flowing bringing you 
candidates. When I say, “next do this” it simply means do this next with the pool


of candidates that are at a particular stage in the process. Superstar candidates 
never stay on the market for long.

      Eventually, you will want to work on creating such a strong brand for your 
company that the best candidates seek you out. This likely isn’t the position you 
are in when you take over as the Sales Boss, but it is something you should take 
ownership of now that you are in charge of the team. All great programmers at 
least consider an interview request from Apple or Google and you want to 
become the company that great salespeople take the call from when they get the 
call. Some simple steps in this regard can be including some great videos about 
your company on your hiring website as well as focusing on the feel and tone of 
your social media presence online. Now for the next step:

<B> Dissect the Resume


      Now that you have a list of applicants and a stack of resumes, you will 
need to decide which ones to connect with. This is mind-numbingly dull work! I 
don’t care if you are using an electronic system (ATS- Applicant Tracking 
System) or if you just have paper stacks of resumes; this is an ugly process.
Buckle down and get it done. Move quickly as the best candidates will not be 
available for long. You don’t have the luxury of taking a long time in the process. 
If you do, you’ll lose the best and be stuck with mediocre.

I suggest the three-pile method:


1.Not a chance 
2.Maybe
3.Worth a look


      If you followed my earlier advice and asked that the candidate writes a 
custom response to a question. You can start by placing the non-compliant ones 
in stacks number two or even one if you have enough candidates.

      Don’t get fooled (sold), by fancy visuals and creative writing. Remember 
that many resumes are solid works of fiction and most of them have been 
embellished creatively. Sometimes the worst looking resume is the super-star as 
it has been a long time since they’ve applied for a new job. It never occurs to the 
super-star that they’ll be judged by anything other than their proven performance. 
The best looking resume is often the result of someone with lots of job-seeking 
experience. I’m guessing that is not exactly the kind of experience you were 
looking for when you started the search. Primarily you should be looking for 
evidence that they’ve had success in the same type of selling environment that 
exists at your company. Think back to the list of questions in the section of this 
report on creating the job posting. How many do they match? The higher, the 
better!

      Make certain that they clearly articulate that they are looking for a sales 
job, not a sales management job or a marketing-slash-sales job. Don’t hire the


long-term sales manager that wants back into sales. You want to hire the sales 
person that has been out demonstrating they have the selling skills that you will 
consistently need them to do.

      What about the length of employment at previous jobs? In today's 
environment, the reality is people change jobs more frequently than in the past. 
What you should do is count the number of years at each role and write it in the 
margins. My guess is you’ll see a pattern. The person switches jobs every three 
years, etc. This should not automatically disqualify them, but you should 
understand that if they work for you, you would have them for a similar length of 
time. Will the time and energy and the length of your sales process make this 
person worthwhile to consider? With all else being equal, your best salespeople 
don’t change frequently.

      One pattern you will see with some great salespeople is one lengthy 
period of employment followed by 2-3 quick job changes. I’m not bothered by 
this pattern as it sometimes means they did very well selling at a company; 
something changed and they’ve been actively looking. They’ve taken a few roles 
only to discover quickly that the job wasn’t what they thought it’d be. You’ll 
discover the facts during your interview process. One pattern that disturbs me 
based on my experiences is if someone has been in a selling role then tried to 
start their own business and failed so now they are returning to the perceived 
safety of a sales job.


      As you read the resumes, underline any phrases that articulate some 
result, such as: “Increased sales by x%” or “Was the number two producer”. You 
will use these statements later in the interview process. How many resumes 
made it to pile #3?

      Let’s discuss the interviews. Every company will have a slightly different 
process, so I will simply outline an effective process for most companies. If you 
chose to do something different, make sure you understand why the stage was 
included in my process and the impact of any change you decide to make. For 
instance, I suggest a phone screen. Some will decide they only have a handful of 
qualified candidates with the correct set of skills outside of the selling skills 
needed (for instance maybe they need to be a doctor, engineer, or have some 
very specialized knowledge) so they’ll choose to skip this step. This might make 
sense.

<B>The interview process


      This is an area people get wrong. They get it wrong because most of us 
have a healthy desire to be liked by other people. What happens is that they 
enter into the process of interviewing and they play the role of “nice guy/gal”.
They want the candidate to want to work for the company, so they spend a lot of 
time making the candidate feel welcomed.


      I’m going to suggest that you adopt a new mindset. Your role is to make 
sure that no sales imposter makes it onto your team. Visualize someone in your 
company that you like and admire. Then imagine that you’ll have to lay them off 
if you let the wrong person join the sales team. What is the emotion you feel as 
you tell them you can no longer afford to pay them? Capture that feeling and 
bring it to the interview. The reality isn’t that far off. If your sales team is filled 
with bad sales people, eventually the company closes its doors. This is critical. 
You must get it right, and your co-workers are counting on you. Also, if you 
become known as the sales manager that has a revolving door of new hires that 
don’t work out, I can guarantee that one-day soon your manager will be showing 
you the exit. Almost nothing else hurts your credibility as a manager as much as 
a poor hire.

      Your focus will be on being polite, but direct. Your role is not to make the 
candidate comfortable. In fact, the best sales interview keeps the candidate 
slightly off balance. After all, you’ll want to see how they perform under stress 
since they’ll likely be calling on prospects that aren’t always eager to see them 
and have their guard up. To be successful in selling, they’ll have needed to 
master the skill of bonding and building rapport. Let them do the work on the 
interview. You focus on getting the truth.

      I’ll outline a four-stage interview process. I’ll label them here and then 
delve into the specific goals of each.


1.10-minute phone screen

2.	Pressure Interview

3.	Performance Interview

4.	Romance Interview


<B> The 10-minute phone screen


      The goal of the phone screen is simple. Do you want to use any time 
visiting with the person in the next interview? Let’s be honest, sometimes you 
can tell right away that they won’t fit. I’d prefer to discover that on a phone call 
rather than in my office. End the call as soon as you know they aren’t a fit. Follow 
a tight script. Again you should be polite, but not work overly hard to make them 
comfortable. That’s their job.

Here is a script that has been used effectively for thousands of screening
calls:


      “Hi, (candidate's name) this is (your name & company) calling for your 
scheduled interview. We were scheduled for a quick 10 minutes does this time 
still work? 	 Great! We’ve had a lot of responses to our posting, so I 
apologize for working quickly today. My goal is to identify the top 3 people to 
hold a lengthier in person interview with our team. We only have one spot open 
and want to make sure we get the best person for the role. Fair?”


What do you know about (Company Name)?


Regardless of response simply say, “OK” and move on.


What in your experience qualifies you for this role as written?


How would you describe yourself as a sales person?


Describe your current sales job.


How do you organize your week?


      Regardless of the answer simply say in a questioning tone, “And that 
works?” This may make them uncomfortable or defensive. Pay attention to the 
response, as it’s how they likely will act with your prospects. Are they confident? 
Do they use humor? Do they try to put you at ease? Or are they simply 
defensive?

I’d like you to complete my sentence. Most sales people fail because

	?


I have a question about your cover letter. (Ask an appropriate question. This 
simply let’s them know this is a personal interview, not a mass interview.)


Do you currently prospect for new business? If so, how?


      If they say by phone: “Great! Let’s role-play that for a minute. I’m the 
prospect, and I just picked up the phone and said hello…go!”

      If they say by networking, adjust the above role-play. The key is to hear 
them verbalize what they have been saying in their last sales role. You should 
immediately detect if they are comfortable and proficient. You can certainly 
discover if they haven’t prospected in ages! Someone that has done this will 
have it down and it will roll off their tongue easily. Play the nice prospect. You 
aren’t trying to trick them here. If they fumble somewhat here, just say, “It’s fine. 
Would you like to start over?” You are simply trying to see how at ease they are 
at something they should have done hundreds of times in their selling career.

      Don’t give an impression of how you think they did. Simply state: “How do 
you think that was? Was that a fair reflection of you?”

Describe your best sale from initial contact to close.


      Pay attention to how “real” it sounds. Were they involved and leading the 
sales or just around when it happened? You’ll hear the difference! Once they 
finish their account, ask: “Why did you pick that example? Their answer here will 
reveal much about how they view selling.


      End the call. “That’s all the time we have. We’ll be contacting the top 3 
candidates to schedule in-person interviews. What’s the best email to use to 
schedule that?”

----- End of call----


      It is important that you rate the responses to each question on a 1-3 scale 
with three being the best response. Go with your gut on this and don’t overthink 
it. Rate them as they answer. It won't be as effective if you wait until the end of 
the call to complete your ratings.

      Give them an additional 3 bonus points if you found yourself “liking them” 
at the end of the call. This means, did they succeed in putting you at ease? Did 
you enjoy the call? Did you start forgetting it was an interview? If so, it’s also 
likely they’ll be good at the developing rapport with your company’s prospects.

Give them one additional point for each of the following:


Did they have good tone and pacing? 
Were they articulate?
Did they try and ask you questions during the call and especially when you 
tried to end the call? A great candidate will try and keep you on the call to 
learn more specifics about the opportunity.


Tally up the total points and schedule the best for the next interview.

Remember to move fast as the best candidates won’t be on the market for long. 
Can you get them in tomorrow? What about if you use a video call to do the next 
interview could you get it completed sooner? Make it happen as soon as 
possible.

      The best email invites help frame some of the expectations for 
performance. Remember that the salesperson is also judging you. Here is a 
sample that you could edit and utilize:

---Begin email template --- 
(Name),
      Thank you for the time spent on the phone today. We would love to have 
the opportunity to spend more time getting to know you and understanding if you 
would be a fit for our sales team. We pride ourselves on building a great 
company with happy, successful people.

      We have the following dates/times available: (List options or use a 
scheduling link so they can schedule right on your calendar)

You can learn more about us here: (website, social accounts, etc.)


      To re-iterate, we are seeking to hire one candidate to add to our sales 
team. A successful candidate will be someone with a proven record of sales


success and yet is still willing to work hard perfecting his or her skills. A new hire 
will be expected to travel every-other week visiting prospects and customers in 
their defined territory. Our new candidates are expected to earn a minimum of 
(insert figure) including their base salary and commissions and failure to achieve 
this number consistently will result in termination. We maintain this policy 
because we know sales people need realistic earning figures when considering 
employment and we know what is achievable in our territories due to our metrics.

      If you decide to accept an interview, please bring with you to the interview 
any sales collateral that you use in your current position when visiting a prospect 
(brochures, power-point, etc.).

      The remaining steps in our process are this interview as well as a final 
interview. We expect this process to be completed quickly by (date).

Let me know what works for you. We look forward to seeing you.


--- End of email template---


      Notice some key points in the email: We expect success and continuous 
learning. We know our sales process and the results we can expect from a new 
sales hire. We give an earning expectation and clearly state that this job is based 
on performance. We also outline the remaining stages in the process and give 
them a date for finishing the process. This is important, as great candidates will


be actively talking to a number of companies. If they have an interest in yours, 
you’ll want them to hang in there for the process.

<B>The pressure interview


      This interview will typically last 45 minutes. I call this the pressure 
interview because once again, I want you to understand that your role is not to 
make them comfortable. That’s their job. Your job is to be a guardian of the 
company. If possible, it is best to have two or three people from your company 
observe this interview. Note that I said to observe. I would have them take 
notes, but not actively participate in the interview. Here is the format:

      Don’t start with small talk. Be polite and direct. A great sales person will 
have a desire to “work the room” and will establish the rapport or warmth of the 
session. Let them do the work so you can see how effective they are at it.
They’ll likely do the same with your prospects. I will give you a few key building 
blocks to use for this interview. You will want to add your own questions that you 
find important. I give you this script simply as a guide to plan your own interview 
from. This interview is sometimes done over video.

---Start of Interview Script ---


“	Thanks for coming in so quickly. As indicated on the phone screen we’ve 
had a bunch of interest in this role and we wanted to visit with some of the top


candidates. I apologize in advance for moving quickly, but we’ve only got 45 
minutes and there are so many things I’d like to learn.

      After this interview, we’ll be asking you to verify your past references, 
earnings, and we’ll quickly schedule a more traditional interview where you can 
ask all sorts of questions you might have and tour the building. I know you have 
a lot you want to know about us and we’ll give you that opportunity to learn more 
at that time. Fair?

      O.K, before we get started…“Tell me what is the one thing I should 
absolutely know about you if you are a part of my sales team, the one thing you 
want to make sure I don’t leave this interview without understanding about you.”

“Why did you pick that one?”


“Tell me about your current/ most recent sales role.”


      “How do you prospect?” Get details. How many, how often, what 
conversion rate, etc. Write down the answers. Be exact. Don’t let them say 10- 
20 calls. How many is it? A great sales person knows their numbers.

      What are the stages of their process currently? Have them give you 
conversion numbers for each stage. You may have to guide them through this 
process to get numbers.


For example:

50 calls give me ten appointments.

Ten appointments get me three next steps.

Three next steps get me two quotable projects and I close 50%.


“What’s the length of your selling cycle? 
How much is the size of the average sale? 
Who is your competition?
How do you compare on price, quality, etc. with your competition?

What’s something you wish you’d have known when you started selling them? 
What’s the biggest selling mistake you’ve made? What did it teach you?
How is your compensation structured? 
How much did you sell last year?”

      Now that you have numbers, work backwards with them as you calculate 
the “truthfulness” of their statements. Example:

      “So you sold $XXX,XXX? Based on the average size of your deals that 
means you sold X clients, correct? So that’s X deals per month? So you went on 
X calls, and X prospecting appointments….”

      Usually you will find the numbers they claim regarding close rate and 
prospecting activities don’t line up. Just say, “I’m puzzled why these aren’t


adding up? What am I missing?” A super-star sales person won’t be ruffled or 
fazed by this line. They’ll just jump in and explain things. They might even with 
some humor say, “To be honest I don’t track my numbers that closely I just get 
results.” A poser, a fake sales person will panic. You will see the difference 
clearly!

      Walk me through the best sale you’ve done for them where you were in 
control from the very beginning of the sales process. You don’t want one that 
was in the pipeline when they took the role. Ask lot’s of details and you’ll 
discover how “real the deal” is and how much they had a role in it. A salesperson 
can remember all the little facts about every deal they did. Don’t let them use 
wishy-washy numbers. Be exact.

“What do I need to know about your prospects?”


      OK, so I asked you to bring your sales material. Let’s role-play a typical 
sales visit you make. Who should I be? Role-play as best as you can. Don’t be 
tricky. Just like the phone screen, play a good prospect. The goal is to see what 
their demeanor is. You want to see if they use good questioning skills, tell stories 
to illustrate their points, speak concisely displaying the skills of a Sales Star.

“If you could go back and re-do that role-play, what would you change?


      If you need to test the candidates responsiveness to coaching, you might 
point out something that you didn’t like about the role-play and ask them to try 
again.

How do you like to be managed?

How do you organize and track your process?

What’s something a past manager told you about your performance that you 
disagreed with at the time?
What has been your most effective way of learning new selling skills?”


      Ask a series of questions that relate to understanding their fit and 
experience against the criteria you placed in the posting. For instance, if your 
company sells to committees and does group presentations. Have they done 
that recently and frequently?

Probe regarding any job changes.


      Get the specifics regarding any claims of success you underlined 
previously in their resume.

Conduct this pressure exercise:


      Ask the candidate to write down (preferably on a whiteboard in the front of 
the room) the top five qualities or habits they believe are critical to sales success.


Don’t comment on any of them yourself, just observe. Next ask them to rank 
them in order of importance 1-5. Finally, when they are finished pick whatever is 
number 4 and say, “I’m surprised (#4) wasn’t in your top 2. Why is that?” Again, 
the idea is simply to see how well they articulate their position and handle stress. 
There is no right or wrong answer here, but would the way they just responded 
be effective if they were selling to your prospects?

---End the Interview ---


      Once the candidate has left, ask each of the observers to sit quietly for the 
next ten minutes and write down a summary of everything they observed or felt 
about the candidate. It is important to do this without sharing your own opinion. 
People will tend to adjust their own views to match the other person. Once 
everyone has written their observations, have them share them with the group.
Decide if you would like the process to continue with this candidate or not. Make 
the decision before leaving the room. If you’ve decided to move forward, contact 
the candidate the same day.

      The next two steps: The performance interview and the romance interview 
can often be combined into one event. The romance interview being dependent 
on how well the performance interview goes.

The performance interview


      The performance interview is the chance to see how the candidate will do 
in your company selling your product or service. You will provide the script, 
collateral and framework for one stage in your selling process to the candidate. 
Typically I like for this to be a face-to-face part of the selling process. You will 
give the candidate a day or so to prepare and then ask that they role-play the 
meeting with your team.

Here’s how to ask for their participation:


      “(name), we’ve really been impressed with what we’ve seen so far. Just 
so we can be really certain this is a product/service that you’ll enjoy selling and 
so we can get a feel for how you’d present things, I’d like to ask you to do one 
final thing before we make you an offer. I’ll provide the tools, scripts, and role- 
play setting. I’d like you to come in and sell to our team. I realize it won’t be 
perfect and you won’t have all the right answers, but we’re ok if you make up a 
few things. We’d just like to see you in action. If that goes well, while you are 
here I’ll give you a tour of the office, let you meet some of the rest of the team 
and answer any questions you may have. When would you like to schedule 
this?”

      During the few days they take to prep, I continue with a few other key 
processes to keep things moving along. For instance now is the time to do the 
reference checks. You can ask them to arrange the calls:


“While you’re prepping for this final meeting, I’d like to have the opportunity to 
speak with (list of names from former companies)…could you email them and 
ask them to connect with me? Thanks!”

      The reason I ask that they arrange the calls is that sometimes it saves me 
from even calling the reference as the salesperson says, “well actually they might 
not be the best person…” When this happens you know you haven’t received the 
full truth during the interview. In the cases where they say,”sure, no problem!” I 
know what they told me was likely close to a version of the truth.

      You will also conduct background screening if required at your company. 
This would also be a time to spend 20 minutes on Google. Google their name. 
Look carefully at their LinkedIn profile. Does everything add up with what you’ve 
been sold or rather told so far? I even consider looking at their home address 
using Google Maps.

Read everything you can that they’ve written online.


      Some might find this extreme…but hey, if I’m investing over a half-million 
dollars, I’ll look for any clues I can to inform my decision.

      On the day of the presentation: if possible, bring in a new set of 
employees to participate in this role-play. You might even consider bringing in 
other members of the sales team to participate as buyers.


      Once the presentation is complete, give some feedback to the candidate. 
Make sure and mention what they did well, but also point out one area that you 
know they’ll need some work on. This is an important step in determining how 
they react to feedback. Are they open to growth?

      Move directly to the next stage if appropriate. If everyone is on the same 
page regarding the candidate you can do this the same day. Remember that in 
hiring a sales superstar time is of the essence.

The romance interview


      This is finally the time when you get to try and woo the candidate into 
falling in love with your company. Pull out all the stops and let them visualize 
what being a part of the team will be like if they choose to join your company. 
Answer all their questions. Give them the tour.

      If possible, take them out to eat. Take them somewhere unique. Tell 
them you’ll be drawing up an offer. And then…pay attention. How do they act at 
lunch when they believe the deal is done and they don’t have to “sell you”? Don’t 
miss this chance to observe them. How do they treat the wait staff? That’s how 
they’ll treat your other employees. When you take them out to eat ask if they’ll 
drive. Don’t go somewhere in walking distance. A sales person will have 
prepared well for the meeting, but the unexpected, “giving the new boss a ride”


isn’t part of the plan. You’d be surprised what you’ll learn by getting in 
someone’s car. Are they organized? Are they clean? Little clues. All are 
important.

      This is your last chance to change your mind. Next you’ll be making the 
ultimate investment. There is one additional item that should be in place for you 
to have the best success when hiring and that is the use of scientific 
assessments. Let’s look at why these are important.


<A>Chapter 8 : Use the Power of Science in Selection



      Humans have for ages tried to use science to understand the behaviors 
and actions of people with various levels of success. Going back to Greek times 
the physician Galen believed and popularized the idea that people were 
influenced by their blood types, the Chinese believed that the year of a person’s 
birth influenced who they were, and almost every society since has had ways of 
categorizing people. Fortunately for us, the science of human behavior has 
come a long way and it now is absolutely possible to predict human behavior 
using scientific assessments. It is critical that a company uses a scientific 
assessment tool to complete the picture of the potential sales candidate to 
ensure you are making the best possible decision. I’m addressing it here in a 
new chapter at the end of the process of hiring, although the use of assessments 
and its actual place in the hiring process could be before the phone screen,


before the first interview, after the first interview or in conjunction with the 
performance interview. Typically the earlier in the process you use an 
assessment tool, the better as it prevents you from getting emotionally attached 
to a candidate that the tool indicates is a bad fit. The reason companies might 
choose to wait until later in the process is to control their costs. A company 
should expect to invest between $250-$400 per serious candidate in assessment 
costs.


      What can you expect from an assessment tool? An assessment is based 
on proven science. In order to be utilized for hiring, the testing provider must 
certify their assessment tool through a process of predictive validity. This simply 
means they have to prove the tool and its results accurately measure what they 
say it does. Brain and human sciences have come a long way in the last five 
years. Hiring without an assessment is simply irresponsible. It would almost be 
like having a sales guy without allowing them email and a cell-phone. They might 
be able to still sell but they’d sure be handicapped! A good assessment tool will 
measure the candidate’s fit in your environment, their learning style, and the best 
way to manage and motivate them. Plus it will offer a whole host of other critical 
data-points. I personally have had great success using PXT-Select and 
Everything-Disc. We added these tools to our consulting practice as we 
witnessed firsthand how powerful they can be. You can search for providers of 
these tools through Google and also learn more about them through our resource 
page if you registered for access to additional resources.


      Because there is a wide-range of assessment tools on the market, it is 
important that you understand some of the key things that these tools can 
provide. I like to think of these tools as allowing us to see how and why someone 
will perform in a certain capacity.


      A tool like the PXT Select will help you understand how a person thinks 
and communicates in comparison to the population as a whole. It measures 
verbal skill, verbal reasoning, numerical ability and numerical reasoning and let’s 
us understand a person’s thinking style. It isn’t an intelligence test, but simply 
lets us know how the person learns and communicates. You can think of it as 
having two different containers that both hold five gallons of water. One might be 
a narrow mouth vase while the second one is a five-gallon bucket! Both of them 
would hold the same amount of water but you’d have to pour the water in at 
different rates. Imagine if you knew your new sales person was the five-gallon 
bucket with the ability to learn really quickly. Or what if your selling environment 
and company needed slow, steady training before being put into the field? The 
key is in understanding what the person is like in comparison to the environment 
you will place them into. The assessment also looks at pace, assertiveness, 
sociability, conformity, outlook, decisiveness, accommodation, independence and 
judgment. You can see how these things would be critical to understand about 
the potential hire and how difficult they’d be to measure without an assessment 
and simply relying on interviewing techniques.


      The second type of assessment is the Everything DiSC. There are a 
variety of tools based on the DISC model and everything DiSC comes from some 
of the initial work done in this science and has a history of helping people better 
understand themselves and how they react to the environment around them. In 
using tools such as this it is important to note that a DISC based assessment 
doesn’t tell you if a person CAN or WILL do they job, it simply tells you what that 
person’s behavior will look like within the team. Because this is the case, you 
wouldn’t use the DiSC to determine a fit in the role but rather how they’d fit into 
your existing team. A good team will try to have people that come from a variety 
of behavior styles so that the team is well rounded and appeals to a broad 
section of potential customers. The term DISC comes from the Acronym formed 
from the behavior tendencies measured: Dominance, Influence, 
Conscientiousness and Steadiness. You can expect someone with a high-D style 
to be more direct, results-oriented, firm, strong willed and forceful than someone 
who is a high-S. A high-S might be described as a person who is even- 
tempered, accommodating, patient, humble and tactful. The High-I would be 
outgoing, enthusiastic, optimistic and lively. The High-C would be the opposite 
showing traits such as being Analytical, reserved, precise, private and 
systematic. Understanding the preferred environment of your sales hire and 
correlating it with the environment they’ll be asked to sell into is a key to 
improving your hiring success. For instance if your selling environment requires 
strict attention to detail, facts and figures, and spreadsheets, then you would do


well to have someone with a bit of the C-traits. If you need someone who is out 
at tradeshows meeting people everyday then you might do better selecting a I- 
trait. Remember though that these styles are just preferences and not 
indications of how they’ll perform. You first need to make sure they can sell and 
then all else being equal, pick the candidate that most closely aligns to the 
environment they’ll sell in. You might also pair them up to prospects who share 
their style. This would be under the premise that people like to buy from people 
like themselves. Beyond the hiring process, these tools will also inform how you 
coach, mentor or train your people. Don’t ever plan to hire someone without 
making use of the latest that science has to offer, but also recognize that an 
assessment tool is only part of the complete picture and you must run every 
other portion of the process well in order to have the best results.


      If you have carefully executed the process outlined you can be confident 
that you have hired a sales super-star. Just remember that even a super-star 
can fail in the wrong environment. Be just as diligent in the crafting and 
execution of the onboarding process.

<A> Chapter 9: Onboarding a New Member of the Sales Team


      The way you bring a new sales person into your team has a profound 
impact on the future success they will have selling for your company. Remember 
that we all tend to change our habits to fit the environment we are in. Remember 
the clean and dirty bathrooms we mentioned earlier? If you’ve followed the hiring


process that was outlined in the previous chapter, you have already gone a long 
way towards communicating with the new hire that he is joining a sales team that 
operates at a very high level. Let’s not spoil that impression on the first day!

      Any required Human Resources paperwork should have been emailed to 
them prior to the first day or can be handled later. Never allow a candidate’s first 
day to be started with a visit to Human Resources Department. If this is your 
company’s policy, fight to have it changed. If you can’t change it, you should be 
in Human Resources with them and make sure they aren’t boring or irrelevant.
Get them in and out as quickly as possible!


      The first day and weeks of a new person’s arrival at your company should 
be orchestrated and planned to help cement the idea in the candidate's mind that 
they’ve made the right decision to spend the next part of their career with your 
team and should infuse within them your standards for performance. Because 
the circumstances of each company will be different with some hiring sales 
people that work out of the office, some from home, some from the field and 
some on the phone, I will simply give you some guidelines that you should apply 
to your process.

      First, everything should be ready in advance. What does it say to a new 
hire if they show up and have to wait in the lobby, if their computer isn’t available 
for a few days or they don’t have business cards? Sloppy and careless leaders


run the show here! It isn’t a surprise that they are starting that day, so make sure 
everything is buttoned up and ready.

      One of my clients they came to me with a concern about the high level of 
turnover that would happen in a very short period after hiring a new salesperson. 
They asked for help in figuring out how to improve the retention rate. I started 
looking at what happened during those first few days. The company’s 
salespeople are throughout the USA and work from their home offices. They 
would travel by car to the places within their territory. When a new person was 
hired, they were to fly to the company's headquarters to receive their training and 
orientation.

      Here was my experience as I traced one person’s onboarding. He flew 
into the airport and got a taxi to the hotel that was reserved for him by the 
company. The hotel was a Motel 6 equivalent. In the morning, he had 
instructions to show up to building ten at 8:00 am and ask for the Human 
Resources department where there would be another group of new hires (not all 
salespeople). When he arrived at 7:45 am there was nobody around, so he 
waited in the lobby. The lobby was dirty with magazines that were six months 
out of date. The first Human Resource staff person finally showed up at eight 
and hurriedly introduced themselves sharing it would be a few minutes before 
they were ready. By this time, five additional new hires were waiting in the lobby. 
Around 8:15 the Human Resource staff member re-appeared and brought 
everyone to a conference room. On the way, the Human Resource person


complained and apologized about how hectic things were. They explained that 
the first person on the agenda for the orientation that morning seemed to have 
forgotten, so they were trying to shuffle things around and see if one of the other 
presenters could start earlier than they planned.

      I’ll spare you the remaining details. It went downhill from there. Two days 
of long boring Human Resource paperwork and all the required sexual 
harassment training, etc. was checked off the list. During the week, no dinners 
were planned just a cold lunch provided in the training room. What do you think 
the sales guy thought of his choice to join the company?

      It took an additional week after he arrived back home to get his computer 
and sales collateral. Then it took a full month to receive his business cards. He 
was instructed just to mark out the last guy’s name in the meantime and pencil in 
his contact information! Was it any wonder he didn’t stay long and the company 
continued to have high turnover?

      We redesigned the process. The small details add up to a big impression. 
Here was the new process. Before traveling to the new hire orientation week, the 
new salesperson would receive a personal call from their new manager 
welcoming them and talking through the itinerary for the week ahead. The 
manager would also make it their mission to get personal details that the usually 
would never ask of the candidate in an interview: Are they married, do they have 
kids, any hobbies, etc.? These details would become useful later.


      The new hire would receive a welcome package in the mail with branded 
company gear, a hand written welcome aboard note from the CEO and a gift 
card for a local restaurant in their hometown to take the family out before leaving 
them for the week. Is this better already? The welcome gets better!

      Once the sales person arrived at the airport, a driver was waiting with their 
name on a sign, helped them with their baggage, and they were whisked off to 
one of the nicer hotels in town close to all the action. The driver told them they’d 
be back to get them in the morning at a specific time to take them to the 
company’s headquarters.

      Upon entering their hotel room, the new sales person would notice a care 
package was waiting in the room. To their surprise, it included an iPad with all 
the instructions to get into the email system, and in fact, when they logged into 
their new email the inbox already had a welcome aboard messages from the rest 
of the sales team and other department heads! The iPad played an emotional 
welcome video that explained the history of the company and some of the core 
principles. Also in the care package besides the chocolates were business 
cards, a fine ink pen, and paper tablet. They would receive their laptop when 
they got to the training in the morning.

      When they arrived at the company’s office the next day, the day was 
started with a tour of all of the production spaces and meeting some of the key


staff. The day even included a trip out to see the equipment they’d be selling 
installed at a customer’s location.

      While they were busy, a care package was sent to the employee's home 
that day addressed to the family at home, perhaps a spouse, maybe some 
children. This package contained a “Thanks for lending us your spouse!” card 
and some other small gifts such as movie tickets, a gift card to Toys-R-Us, or a 
basket of goodies related to what was of interest to the family. What do you think 
the difference in attitude and energy was when the salesperson called back 
home after the first night of training in the second example versus the first? I can 
just imagine the family at home saying, “Don’t mess this one up! It sounds like 
you’ve found the right place!”

      And from here it continued to get better. Suffice it to say, that every 
moment of that time training was well planned and orchestrated. The turnover 
rate in the sales team quickly plunged to below 10%.

      What is the first impression of your company on the salesperson’s first 
days? Outside of the crafting of the environment, there are also things to get 
accomplished regarding learning the product, computer systems, internal 
company functions, and more. Largely the type of company and the complexity 
of the sale will determine how you handle this initial training period, but a key 
guideline to follow is to integrate some selling activity as soon as possible. Don’t 
wait until they are fully trained. Remember that habits are powerful. Have you


ever been in a good fitness routine of eating and exercise and then had it 
interrupted by a long vacation followed by a heavy workload? How hard was it to 
get back into the healthy fitness habits? Use this same understanding when 
thinking about keeping your new salesperson’s selling skills in top shape. You 
hired them knowing they were in fit shape, don’t let them lose these habits during 
a long training process. Get them right into habits.

      Some ways you might sprinkle in sales activity throughout the training 
period are:

1.	Have them call their old clients and set up an introductory meeting with 
your team. This keeps them in prospecting mode and doesn’t require them to be 
an expert. If they’ve had good client relationships in the past, it’ll be easy to get 
their clients to do a favor and see your company. Next, have the new hire 
accompany your best sales person on the actual call. A word of caution: Don’t 
embarrass the new sales person with his old clients by having them go on the 
call with a mediocre salesperson. This will destroy their faith in your team. Have 
them paired with someone that will awe them with their skill.

2.	After learning about a product, have them role-play a sales call with your 
team. Your team will be a potential customer where the product the salesperson 
has just learned about is the appropriate solution.


3.	Have them do sales ride-alongs with a team member. Have them handle 
all of the data entry into the CRM (Customer Relationship Management). This 
will help them learn the computer systems using real scenarios rather than just 
classroom knowledge. If you do this, you’ll see a higher adoption rate of the 
CRM once they are in the field.

4.	Have them analyze their assigned territory and create a prospecting and 
customer development plan. Where will they travel? How will they prioritize their 
activity? This will allow you to see how they think and cause them to get excited 
to get in the game.

5.	Have them teach a segment at one of your regularly scheduled sales 
meetings. You will assign them a topic such as phone prospecting, handling 
objections, effective use of questions or some other critical selling skills. They 
will present a teaching segment to the sales team. The sales team will give them 
feedback. This allows you to accomplish seeing how they think about the topic, 
how well they present and hold the attention of the group and it keeps their skills 
sharp.

      There are many other ways to add in selling activity before the completion 
of their training. Spend some time planning what these are and be intentional 
with the implementation. Where possible, don’t have a day pass by that they 
don’t spend some of it exercising the same skills you need them to do when they 
are finally turned loose on their own. Use your imagination to supercharge each


activity by adding a twist that makes it more memorable, impactful, fun and that 
keeps their selling juices going. Don’t allow mental laziness. Set the standard 
that to be a part of your group means that they will continue to learn and increase 
their knowledge base of your field including your competition. You don’t expect 
them to be an expert on day one; you do however expect that they’ll continue to 
grow each day even if they are with the company for twenty years. Old dogs can 
and will learn new tricks.

      As an example several of my clients sell capital equipment: large-scale 
automated packaging equipment. These are complex machines, going into 
complex manufacturing and processing environments. Even with a background 
in the industry a new salesperson has a lot to learn! The best companies stagger 
the learning expectations and importantly test that the salesperson has retained 
the knowledge. Let’s take a Thermoforming machine as an example. The first 
phase of learning expectations might be:

What is a thermoforming machine? 
How does it work?
Why do our customers use it?

What problems are we uniquely qualified to fix for our customers? 
How much does it cost?
What is the lead-time from order to delivery?

Who is the ideal customer for this piece of equipment? 
How was it done before thermoforming?


      That might be enough for them to learn and pass a test on in the first thirty 
days. Perhaps a similar test for each key piece of equipment they’ll be 
responsible for selling could be developed.

      What about at the end of their first quarter with the company? Maybe you 
expect they’ll have increased their knowledge with:

Who are our main competitors on the Thermoforming machine? 
How do I conduct an ROI discussion with the prospect?
What is the typical payback period?

What are the alternative methods of packaging that compete with us for this type 
of process?
How do our machines differ from the competition and why?




At the end of the second quarter:


What are the names of the salespeople at other competitors that sell in your 
territory?
Who are their key customers?
What equipment comes before and after our Thermoformer in the production 
line?
Who sells these other pieces of equipment?


      At the end of the fourth quarter, you add to the list. No mental laziness is 
allowed on your team. You set the tone that in addition to filling the sales role, 
you expect that they will be progressively and intentionally increasing their 
knowledge. You will verify this through some test that they are doing so. The 
school is never out for a professional on your team.

      How can you test this knowledge? You might use written test, causal 
interviews, peer reviews or some other method. The real key is that it must be 
formalized and expected. Nothing is left to chance on the A-Team.

      Sometimes you might find when you take on the sales manager role that 
there is not a good training library. If this is the case, you should create one 
quickly. This is an area where you shouldn’t allow wanting perfection to keep 
you from getting started developing a library. You can always improve it over 
time, but it is critical that you get started with something as soon as possible.

      One method that might be helpful is to have your product experts or 
product managers walk you through the intricacies of the product your team sells. 
Video-record everything! Ask them to list the top 20 things a person needs to 
know and be able to speak intelligently about. Ask your experienced sales 
people to tell you what they think is critical and be sure to get some video of this 
information. Don’t just focus on “how this product works” also focus on the why. 
What problem does it solve for our customer and how? Remember the old


selling routine of FAB, feature-advantage-benefit. This X has this feature, and 
the advantage of this is it reduces XYZ, and the benefit to you our customer is 
ABC. Once you have these videos, use them to create mini-lessons. Split them 
into segments that correspond to the quarter or period that you have set your 
learning expectations for the new salesperson.

      Your training library should also have full-length sales calls that the 
salesperson can view as a standard of what excellence looks like when done 
correctly. If there are several stages of calls, each of them should have a video. 
Record a role-play with your best salespeople.

      If you don’t have the company resources to edit the videos into something 
appealing you should consider outsourcing the creation. I have used 
Upwork.com with great success. You can post a request, upload the videos and 
a list of the key learning points. You will get back a fully produced learning 
product complete with overlays, music, etc. You can even state what you are 
willing to pay if you have a limited budget or time constraints. If you want to 
maximize your time return choose someone in another time zone to do the 
editing. This allows you to view what they have done; they’ll work on it while you 
are sleeping and you’ll have the work the next day when you get back into the 
office. The key thing is to get them done and into the hands of your new 
salesperson.


      If you have a new person starting, and you don’t have them ready, then 
have them record everything they see during their first month! If someone is 
walking them through a product, record it! If they are attending a sales 
presentation, record it! You can then use these videos in the future.

      If you must do this creation work yourself, I recommend using a product 
called Camtasia. Check them out on the web and you’ll see how easy it is to 
create great content. Of course, you have more important work to do so opt to 
have someone else do the creative if at all possible. Just remember, at the end 
of the day it is your fault! If you don’t have what you need, you must get it. The 
idea is not to create extra work unnecessarily. Use the things already happening 
and capture them for training re-use in the future. For instance, if your team is 
presenting at a trade show and they do a walk-through of the equipment they are 
selling before the show, simply think ahead about how to capture effectively for 
training purposes.

      Once you have some training collateral, find a way to automate its 
distribution and the testing. There are LMS (Learning Management Systems) 
that can be used to offer access to the training. You could also simply schedule 
emails to go out with the links to the proper training. These emails could be in 
60-90-120 day increments to encourage and promote constant learning. Set a 
reminder in your calendar (this also can be automated!) to follow up with the 
skills test. Any good CRM (Customer Relationship Management) program can 
add automation to routine activities. For sales people, I like these tests to take


largely the form of role-playing sales scenarios with their peers who can do a 
peer review. This serves to not only test the knowledge acquisition but reinforces 
good selling behavior. After all, it's not just knowledge for knowledge's sake, but 
it is to help them sell more effectively.

      A side note: When you conduct a role-play, record it. Give it to the 
salesperson to view. Most of us have never watched ourselves on a regular 
basis in a sales task. You’ll be surprised at the improvements they’ll make as 
they regularly see themselves. Remember when we talked about things being 
good or bad by comparison? This is a great opportunity to give them something 
to compare themselves to when rating their performance.

      Once you have set up a process of training that leaves no room for mental 
laziness, you will find that the results start to improve. Great salespeople have a 
bit of a competitive nature and they’ll thrive in this environment. Unfortunately 
the old truism; “If you don’t use it you lose it”, is also at play. You will need to 
have a method built into your automated routine that encourages the team to 
revisit and relearn important topics. Fortunately, there are easy ways to 
accomplish this.


      There are companies that sell products to facilitate this. One such 
company is Mind Marker. Mind Marker will take your content and create follow- 
up reminders, quizzes, and activities and distribute these to your team right onto 
their smartphone at spaced intervals to reinforce the learning. They can revisit in


quarter three something you taught in quarter one. You will know how well 
information is getting used and retained. These types of products come 
complete with dashboards so you can see at a glance how people are doing and 
the level of participation. The cost is typically around $10-15 a user, so no 
reason exists not to use them or something similar if you don’t have something 
already in place.

      Nobody likes to be micro-managed. Having a robust and automated 
training system allows you to have this critical function on autopilot. Your 
involvement is minimized to times when someone gets really off course or just 
needs small adjustments and encouragement.

      Once you set this as a rhythm in your organization, people will have it as 
an expectation and will not bristle at participating. They’ll view it simply as a way 
your team stays in top shape and beats the competition. Compare this to the 
manager that only gets involved and digs into the details when they are unhappy 
with the team member! When you just have random inspections and manager 
involvement, then the sales person will feel micro-managed and isolated. It’ll be 
like a bird swooped in and pooped on them. They’ll immediately feel like they are 
doing something wrong and get defensive. So make it easy on yourself. Set an 
early expectation on how they’ll grow their abilities. Even on a pro sports team 
everyone hits the practice field to get better and learn how to play with the team 
during the critical game. Take it to the next level and offer badges, prizes, and 
drawings for participants. There has been a lot of research into gamification that


shows how much more deeply engaged both in the level of effort and time when 
there is a “game” aspect of the technology. Many modern CRM systems will 
have this ability built into their platforms, but if that is not possible for you then 
you can simply create more awareness by openly publishing results and 
celebrating success.

      One CEO of a company that has been my client is outstanding in this 
regard. He even created an official looking passport that was given to new hires 
and they would get their “visas” stamped in their passport as they achieved 
certain company milestones, experiences or training levels. Get out of the typical 
training mindset and find a way to make it engaging, fun and self-reinforcing.

<A>Chapter 10: Know Your Sales Process and Your Numbers


      What creates success for a salesperson at your company? Where do 
leads usually come from? How do they progress from interest to sale? When I 
ask this of many mediocre sales managers, I am often told, “It depends, every 
case is a little different.” When I probe a little deeper, this is usually code for, “I 
don’t teach a system.” In every case, it is a sure sign that the team is 
underperforming.

      As a manager of the team, you must know not only the typical selling 
process but you must also understand the numbers around these processes and 
have a strong opinion about what works and why. You will allow individual


flexibility, but you need also to teach a system for selling. Yes, every case is a 
little different. Yes, every sales person has unique quirks, personality, talents, 
and magic. You must, however, sort through all of this to have a road map to 
give your team. You will set the standard, and you’ll decide how much deviation 
from the standard is acceptable as the team adds their quirks, personality, 
talents, and magic.

      I think of a sales process and the people charged with carrying it out like a 
serial TV show. The topic and style of successful shows take many different 
formats, but all of them share some basic DNA. Think about a successful TV 
series. They all have:

      A premise or overarching plot line. Think: Crime scene investigator takes 
justice into his hands by vigilante murders. The premise must be “big enough” to 
handle the variety of episodes within the series.

      Each episode contributes to the plot line and hooks the watcher into tuning 
in again next week.

Each episode begins with a summary of the season to date.


      They have characters that act in a predictable (and sometimes predictably 
unpredictable) ways.


      They have music and imagery that immediately brings up a fondness for 
the series. Sometimes just hearing the opening musical notes can produce a 
flood of emotion. Think: Star Wars, Mission Impossible, or Survivor.

      Thinking of your sales process as a TV series is an effective way to teach 
and mentor the team plus gain clarity. In many of the companies I work with the 
sales manager thinks they have a sales process, but when the team is asked to 
write down the sales stages, there is no agreement. In one company, the 
number of steps ranged from three all the way to thirteen depending on the sales 
rep. Let’s look at this in action:

1.	Prospecting

2.	Initial contact

3.	First sales visit on phone
4.	In person visit & qualification
5.	Tour customer’s production plant
6.	Create samples
7.	Gain agreement
8.	Present proposal

9.	Negotiate details

10.	Sign agreement


      This might represent a typical sales person’s sales process. Because 
they have achieved success with this series of “episodes” they continue to do it


this way. Another salesperson might combine and eliminate steps, and the 
process becomes:

1.	Prospecting

2.	Initial phone contact qualification

3.	Customer visit & plant (or office) tour

4.	Create consensus, negotiate details

5.	Sign agreement


      The differences may not seem important, but they are! Some processes 
add unnecessary steps, create delays, raise objections the prospect hadn’t even 
thought of and much more. You’ll discover some sell almost completely by 
email, some do the proposal in person, some over the phone. Some start with 
the fee while others wait to discuss fees until the end. I’m not suggesting which 
series of episodes above is more effective, what I am suggesting is there is a 
truth contained within the experience of your team that can be of use to you.
Your job is to find and define the best-practice. If you want to enlighten yourself 
try this exercise: Ask each member of your team to write out the stages in their 
personal sales process. Compare notes.

      Once you have your company's processes, you will want to define each 
episode/stage. Think of the episode definition as the little explainer text you see 
on Netflix about what the viewer can expect. You are defining what happens in 
this episode. How does it tie into the previous episode? How does it build


momentum? How does it end so the prospect tunes into the next episode? What 
imagery and tone will attract the sale?

      I like to be creative and write it out as an actual story. The customer enters 
our facility and is wowed by our attention to detail. As they sit sipping their coffee 
they notice...as they see our demo they...etc...they leave understanding the 
power of our operation and eager to discover how it will impact their current…”


      Be dramatic. People love, learn and remember stories. Your salespeople 
are people. You want them emotionally “getting” what their task is as it relates to 
the customer at each phase. What is the journey they should be taking their 
prospect on through their sales process? Writing out a customer story will allow 
you to know how to title this episode of the customer journey from prospect to the 
sale. What are the stories your sales people telling in the field? You might have 
noticed when we labeled the parts of the hiring process we called them The 
Pressure Interview and The Romance Interview. After you learned these hiring 
skills, the name of the stage alone reminds you of what the key is to success at 
that phase of the process.

      A new salesperson joining your company should clearly understand the 
series and the importance of each episode. Outside of TV in the world of sports, 
top athletes have a system. They have a way to approach the ball, serve, hit, 
stance, etc. It is only by having a system that they know how to diagnose what is


going wrong and how to get better. It is similar with your team. If they are going 
to get better, you can’t have every “at-bat” be completely different.

      The look, feel, and substance of interactions should carry the company’s 
image. The art of great sales management means you do this in a way that 
allows freedom of the individual’s quirks, personality, talent, and magic. If you 
are not careful in the quest for consistency, you can squeeze out the human 
traits that add power to the process. It’s a tough balance to achieve, but one that 
a high EQ Manager will excel at doing.

      Now that you understand the importance of mastering and publishing a 
company’s sales process, it is equally important that you know the numbers. 
What is the conversion between each stage? How much of each phase of 
activity leads to the right pipeline? How much pipeline is needed to produce the 
sales number? This is critical. You and every member of the team must know 
their numbers. At the end of the day sales matters; but, it is in the data of those 
dollars that the future riches lay. It is the clue to where to mine for gold.

      We’ll talk about how to use the numbers in a later chapter but a few words 
of caution now:

1.	When you focus strictly on numbers, salespeople will feel micromanaged.

Numbers only tell part of the story. Never diagnose with numbers. Use numbers 
as a symptom and a clue of where to look when there are struggles.


2.	No sales person likes paperwork, so your systems must gather the metrics 
without creating extra or redundant work.

3.	The numbers must be real to them to have meaning and impact. Don’t 
manage by the numbers or independently set behavior metrics.

4.	Don’t start a discussion with a number. For example: “I noticed in the 
CRM that you didn’t do much prospecting phone calls this week.” Be human. 
Only reference the numbers in a real conversation that is tied to their motivation 
and results.

<A>Chapter 11: Who Gets My Time and Attention?


      Superstars hang out with superstars and sometimes with promising new 
talent. They don’t waste time trying to get someone to be a superstar who isn’t 
motivated and talented. If you look at most sales managers, though, you will see 
that they spend an inordinate amount of time on the people that are performing 
the worst.

      Think about your experience: Maybe you open up your email and learn 
that Frank had yet another “sure deal” fall out of his forecast. He is frantically 
calling you to see if there are any price concessions that can be made to tip the 
scales back in his favor with the prospect. Frank assures you that it’ll be worth it!


Before you know it you are working the phones to see what can be done to 
salvage the deal. Soon it is lunchtime and you’ve not done any of the things you 
wanted to do. You’ve done Frank’s job! You worked for Frank.

      The good news is if you improve your ability to attract, hire and onboard 
superstars, you won’t waste time with mediocre salespeople. In the meantime, 
make sure that you are spending the greatest share of your time with your A- 
players. In a study conducted by the authors of ‘The Challenger Sale’, it was 
noted that the gap between an Average and a Star Performer was 59% in a 
transactional sale. This gap widened to an astounding 200% in a complex sales 
environment. Who do you think you will get the best results from regarding your 
time investment?

      Ask yourself, “If I pushed and focused my efforts on helping my A-player 
Star Performer have all the resources they could utilize, what level of sales could 
they generate?” Ask the same thing about your bottom performer. My guess is 
that you’ll always predict that the A-player can bring in more money. If you were 
to look back in your calendar or email history (or forward into the next few 
weeks), what story would the record show? Would it show you value the Star 
Performer or the Mediocre?

      Some managers make the mistake of taking a hands-off approach to their 
Stars thinking that if they need anything, they’ll ask. Usually, however this 
approach leads to the Star feeling undervalued and unappreciated. I once heard


this referred to as “Funeral Managing”. You know at a funeral how you 
awkwardly state, “I’m so sorry, let me know if I can help you with anything.” How 
often do you get that call? Usually not that often even if help was needed or 
would have been appreciated. Have you said the same to your Star Performers?

      You don’t “manage” the Star so much as you are their agent. You do 
everything you can to get them on stage and selling. Yes, sometimes an Agent 
will tell the Star that they are doing something that is hurting their career and will 
offer advice. Similarly, you will be giving such feedback to your Star from time- 
to-time. Most of the time, however, will be supporting their efforts and running 
interference for them inside the company to help eliminate barriers to getting 
them the resources or support they need. You’ll also look after their mental and 
physical health so they can perform at the highest level. Even a Star will have 
days, weeks or months when they aren’t at optimal performance. When you 
have a close relationship, you will know when these moments are starting to set 
in and you can get involved earlier to alleviate the impact. Make sure your Stars 
are happy!

      Don’t get into a war of ego with your Stars. In every company I have 
worked with, the Stars can tend to be high maintenance. They don’t always play 
by the rules and they have a low tolerance for arbitrary processes. Get over it.
Better results should equal less scrutiny, not less time and attention from you. At 
the end of the day, the whole company eats because the Star sold something.
Step in when the Star is creating animosity or a corrosive environment, but most


of the time just clear the path for them. When you need the Star to follow a rule 
or a process you’ll need to help them appreciate the impact it has on their results 
or the results of the company. Most Stars also have an altruistic side that can be 
co-opted into polishing the other team members.

      Carefully prod the thinking of the Star to realize that they aren’t yet at the 
very top of where they could be and that they can improve. The competitive 
nature will fuel their fire. The best Sales Stars end up competing even with 
themselves. They love to win for winning’s sake. It might be better to say they 
hate losing more than they love winning. If the selling skills of your Star surpass 
your abilities (and this is likely the case), get them some outside coaching that 
isn’t something given to the entire group. For instance, you might have the entire 
sales team participate in monthly sales training and you might have an outside 
trainer come in to teach the group throughout the year. By its nature, these 
group sessions are simplified to accommodate the wide range of talents on the 
team. Pick something special for your Star to experience outside of the group 
environment. That means if the whole team is Star players you’d pick something 
different for each player. An example might be sending them to a personal 
development Tony Robbins style seminar or some high-level event that they 
might not pay for themselves. The key is that the event does not have to be 
related to selling. Choose something that will stretch their view of what is 
possible in life and energizes them for growth. If you’ve developed a relationship 
with them, you are likely to know what type of events would provide this stimulus. 
Remember when we said, “things are only good or bad by comparison”? Your


Star players compare themselves to everyone on the team. They see that they 
are at the top and plateau unless you provide them something bigger. In most 
cases, this point-of-comparison must come from outside the walls of your 
company. A bonus of providing them these opportunities is that their affinity for 
you will grow as a result. They’ll not just see you as a manager, but as an ally. If 
you give bonuses that are strictly cash, the bonus will soon be forgotten. If 
however you use experiences as a bonus, you will not only have the experience 
remembered for years you will also be energizing them for better performance.

      A wise manager sets aside time to nourish the Stars on their team. They 
also spend time with the up and coming talent. They clear the deck of anyone 
that consistently fails to improve. It isn’t worth the time. Be willing to sit in 
judgment.

      Think of it like this: If you had a job that required a dog, but you couldn’t 
easily find any dogs would you go out and buy a cat? The reality is even if after 
a lot of effort and time you could get the cat to bark like a dog, it’d never be that 
convincing. Both have four legs and fur, but nobody mistakes one for the other! 
In sales, you also need a certain DNA. If you hire someone without it, no amount 
of coaching and mentoring will get them to be convincing (or successful) in the 
sales role. Start with the dog, the right sales DNA and then train them to be the 
best dog.


      Who are the cats on your team right now? If you look at these cats and 
know, they’ll never be convincing Sales Stars then do something sooner rather 
than later. The question isn’t, “Can they sell?” The real question is, “Can they 
sell like a Star?” Don’t keep a cat. If you don’t have any C-players on your team 
(Cats), then it’s easy to spend time with the right people: Your Stars and up-and- 
coming Stars.

      In the next few chapters, we’ll progress through how you should spend the 
time with your team, what meetings you absolutely must have and then into how 
best to play the role of coach, mentor, and leader: How to be the Ultimate Sales 
Boss.

<A> Chapter 12: Team Rhythms that Lead to Group Cohesion


      We’ve discussed establishing some sacred rhythms that will help you in 
your management and motivation of the team. Let’s discuss what some of those 
key rhythms need to be for your team. A team cannot operate effectively 
together without regular meetings together. It is essential that you hold regular 
and productive meetings. But understand that if you run a poor meeting, you’ll 
get poor results and people will believe you are wasting their time.

      One of the things I suggest is at least twice yearly taking an anonymous 
vote to see if the participants of the meeting think you should keep the meeting or 
get rid of it. Do a vote anytime you personally feel the energy has left the


meeting. If a majority feel the meeting should be axed, then the next meeting 
should be started something like this:

“Well guys, the results are in, and 75% of you think this meeting should be 
axed and is a waste of your time. My apologies! I guess I haven’t done 
my job well enough in making sure this meeting provides a ton of value to 
you. I hate wasting your time, as I know you have important selling 
activities to be involved in today. I have this meeting scheduled because I 
believe it’s important to 	 . So the question is, how can we 
change this meeting to accomplish that goal and provide enough value in 
return so that next time you vote to keep this meeting? Let’s spend the 
remainder of this time figuring that out.”

      Then have an open discussion on what would make the meeting better 
and more impactful. This type of honest communication will send the message 
to your team that you value them, that you don't want to micromanage and that 
results are important. It will also allow you to customize your meetings to 
achieve results. Remember these meetings are sacred so I would never actually 
cancel them, I’d just work to repurpose them into something useful.

      I’d like to share a meeting facilitation technique here that you can use in a 
variety of ways, but that will prove effective specifically in this setting. Have you 
ever needed to get the group’s input and then had one person dominate the 
discussion or had the discussion go in so many directions there is no clear


answer as to the action to be taken? If so, this meeting technique will help. I 
learned it in a Crestcom Leadership class. They call it the one-third plus one 
technique, but it has been taught in many other iterations under other names.

      Start the meeting by defining the problem to the group. In this case, it 
would be: We need to make this meeting more valuable. Next, give the team five 
minutes of silent thinking time and ask them to write down solutions or problems 
with the meeting. You pick, do you want to hear problems that should be 
eliminated or solutions? Maybe you’ll do both, but start with one. Ask them to 
circle the top 3-5 (you choose the number) thoughts. Having them write it down 
keeps the meeting moving and also keeps one strong voice from influencing 
everyone else.

      When the five minutes are up, go around the room having people share an 
item off of their list. Just one item each and continue to go around the room until 
everyone’s top items have been shared. As the group is sharing someone 
should be writing the list down on a flip chart (or some other method if this is an 
online call).

      Number the list starting at one and going through the end of the list. Once 
you have a total number of items, you will divide the number into thirds and add 
one. So for instance if you have twelve items on the list, you would divide it into 
thirds (4) and add one giving you (5). Five is the number of votes each 
participant gets.


      Go quickly around the room with each person placing their five votes for 
what they think are the top items to consider(1,2,6,8,9) using just the number 
designation. The facilitator tallies the marks on the flipchart and then comes up 
with a total for each category.

      At the end, you will typically have a consensus on the top three items that 
can be actionable. Start the discussion here. You might even choose to do 
another ?+1 round on the highest rated item, this time changing the premise to 
asking how to implement or change the item under discussion. You can see a 
video example of this technique if you’ve registered elevatehp.com/thesalesboss. 
This technique has the advantage of getting group participation and buy-in. It 
moves the discussion ahead to actionable items very quickly.

      So now that we are clear that any meeting that doesn’t have value gets 
changed and improved and not cancelled, let’s look at group meetings. It is 
important that you come up with a creative name for these meetings that 
describes the purpose. Maybe use terms related to your industry. An airline 
related company might use preflight, sorties, fly-ins, flight plan, chandelle, etc. If 
you aren’t familiar with these flying terms, it’s because you aren’t in the industry. 
Remember you increase the sense of belonging when you have a unique 
language. Use your unique names for these meetings and don’t be boring.

<B> Group Meetings


<C>Weekly Group Check In [You’ll use another name]


      This meeting should move quickly and needs to be highly structured. It is 
a quick state of the sales team meeting. I find it best to have these on Monday 
early or Friday morning. If you leave them until late on Friday, people won’t be 
engaged, and you’ll get more absenteeism. This meeting has three parts.

      The Introductions: During this section the team members do an individual 
check-in with the group. They report their sale number or activity metrics for the 
period. They also give kudos to someone in the company and then say what 
their area of focus is in the next period. The check-ins proceed without any 
commentary from you. Don’t let this ramble. In fact with some of the best 
meetings I have seen, this check in is scripted. If you script the check-in, it will 
set a rhythm and keep people from not stating clearly what is happening in their 
sales territory. Here is a sample script:

“My sales for the year are 	 against the year’s goal of 	. This 
last week I sold 		. I conducted 	 new prospecting visits and 
completed 	 executive overviews. That puts me ahead/behind 
where I need to be. Last week I committed to 	, and I was able to
	. Next week my specific focus is on 	 . An area I could 
use some help on is 	. I’d like to give kudos to 	 for 	.”


      What happens when you start this way? It adds some peer pressure. 
Without saying a word, the individuals compare their behavior to the team’s 
behavior. They will in many ways start to self-correct their behaviors. If they 
have a bad week, they’ll work even harder to have a glowing check-in the 
following week. If the highest selling person’s activity numbers are higher than 
their own, they’ll start to increase their activity. Nobody wants to be the person 
saying, “I completed five prospecting calls” when everyone else has been above 
15.

      This format also tells new hires that numbers and results are important 
and that they better know their numbers. It helps the “things are only good or bad 
by comparison” aspect of the team. It also allows you to change the script to 
include areas you feel are vital to the growth of the team’s results. Choose a key 
metric to add to the check-in and people’s focus will shift to that item.

      The second part of the meeting is yours: Share anything that impacts the 
team here. New promotions, upcoming trade shows, marketing changes or 
anything that will equip them to do their jobs. Be positive and up-building. Give 
credit to the team. Restate who the enemy to sell against is if you have framed 
one for the team.

      The last part of the meeting is for someone to share a win or a loss and 
what was learned so that the team can benefit. Assign this in advance to


someone from something you have learned during the week’s coaching 
sessions.

      Of key importance: This meeting runs on time both beginning and end. It 
is never altered or canceled and people only miss when they are on vacation.
Nothing (not even a customer) is allowed to bump this meeting with your team. 
This is what I mean by Sacred Rhythms. This more rigid style of meeting is 
counter balanced by the monthly meeting described next.

<C>Monthly Roundtable [You’ll use another name]


      The tone of this meeting is relaxed and fun. This once a month meeting is 
where you do some deeper dive training or sharing of information. It is run in 
addition to the weekly check-in, not in replacement of one. You have a full month 
to plan this meeting, so it should never look thrown together. Use a theme or 
some other way of marking this as a well-prepared event. This meeting can be 
expanded to include people outside the actual sales team, but people whom the 
sales team needs to work with to do their best work. For instance, you might 
invite product managers, marketing, or quote writers to present to the group.

      This meeting should start with a rhythm. For example, if your team has 
developed a certain way of introducing the company and folks are still learning it, 
you might start with someone role playing that intro. Keep doing this at the start 
of each roundtable until it has become second nature and then substitute a new


rhythm. I like to use a random assignment of who will do the role play that way 
everyone reviews it in preparation for the meeting just in case they get chosen. 
Be careful not to pick on someone here. I avoid even the appearance of putting 
someone on the spot by having someone pick a name out of a hat. You can 
make this a fun part of the meeting and provide a learning lesson at the same 
time.

      Use the remainder of the meeting for training and drills. The more often 
you drill, the more nimble your team will be when they are in front of the 
customer. It helps keep them in shape. You can also use this time to address key 
issues that affect the entire team or to plan for upcoming events such as 
tradeshows.

      Give a monthly summary of results then give some rewards and 
recognition. If possible, use a traveling trophy or something that creates a bit of 
humor and allows the person doing the rewarding to tell a story. Choose a story 
that tells a lesson. People remember good stories. Don’t call to task an 
underperformer publicly. No benefit comes from it. On a rare occasion a team 
scolding can be useful, but this is rare.

      Have some fun as part of the meeting. Consider holding the meeting in 
different areas: maybe in manufacturing or another department, at the local park 
or museum or one of your key vendor or customer locations. Avoid using your 
company’s conference room every month. People will start to tune out and you’ll


have to work extra hard to get results if you do this meeting on autopilot. Use 
your imagination to create a great meeting. When people enter the room, have 
some upbeat music playing. If your meeting is a virtual meeting, find an 
equivalent way to spice things up.

      I find movie clips are a great way to make a point and add humor. For 
instance, I saw one manager use a youtube video that was a remake of the 
scene from A Few Good Men. It was the scene when Tom Cruise cross- 
examines the general played by Jack Nicklaus in a tense high stakes courtroom 
scene. Tom needs to get Jack to admit to ordering the code red. In the end, Jack 
screams out in frustration and indignation, “You’re Goddamn right I ordered the 
code red!” The clip was remade to be, ‘A Few Good Expenses’ and the point 
was about proper and improper expenses while traveling. It turns out the 
General was expensing lap dances, “You’re Goddamn right I expensed the lap 
dance!” It was fun, humorous and made the point.

      The Sales Boss could have lectured for the 100th time on controlling 
expenses, but instead he used his creativity to discuss an otherwise boring and 
sometimes emotional topic. TED Talks are also a great source for content to start 
or frame a meeting. If I were doing a meeting on sales leadership, I would 
perhaps select a clip from Derek Sivers: How To Start A Movement. Google and 
watch it.


      I’ve seen other companies train with a full stage mock-up of popular 
games shows complete with the Sales Boss dressed as Alex Trebek, Vanna 
White or Oprah. Don’t be too serious except when it comes to revenue results. If 
you need some help, get your marketing team or some interns involved in 
creating some cool meeting collateral.

      This meeting is a prime time to be the thermostat and not the 
thermometer! You must set the temperature and energy level of the group. Do 
you need the team to believe, think or feel a certain way? Then you must be 
there ahead of them. I remember someone early in my leadership career told me 
the story of Pirate Roberts that has forever embedded in my mind the need for 
the leader to set the right tone.

      Dread Pirate Roberts’ was feared on the high seas. He had a winning 
reputation and also some quirks of battle. Whenever he would spot a group of 
ships on the horizon he would rally his band of pirates to ready for the fight, but 
would also say to his First Mate: “Bring me my red pants!” The First Mate would 
dutifully bring the red pants, and the battle would soon be won. After many 
successful battles, the First Mate inquired of the Captain, “Why do you always 
call for your red pants just before battle?” “That’s simple,” stated the Captain, “I 
always call for my red pants so that if I am struck in battle by the enemy's sword 
and I bleed, the wound won’t be visible to our fighters! We can’t have them 
getting discouraged!”


      This made sense to the First Mate and he admired the bravery of Dread 
Pirate Roberts. A few days later, ships appeared on the horizon. This group of 
ships seemed much grander than their usual battles. All of a sudden Dread 
Pirate Roberts voice rang out, “First Mate, hurry to bring me my brown pants!”

      This silly story has always served to remind me that when I am front of my 
team, my demeanor has a substantial impact. I can choose what my team 
receives from me in terms of energy and enthusiasm. I can also choose the 
unwritten messages. Always be aware of your emotional state and the impact it 
will have on the team. Who you are being can be speaking so loudly that they 
won’t hear what you are saying.

      Your communication style says a lot about where you are coming from 
and what drives you. Are you leading from fear? Are you feeling the pressure of 
the sales target and upper-management and allowing that to roll down on the 
team? Are you confident that your team is up to the challenge and will win?
You’ve heard the old advertising slogan: Never let them see you sweat. Maybe 
in the future ask yourself if you have on your red pants or your brown ones.

<C>Yearly Sales Gathering [You will call it something else]


      This gathering is what you might think of as the typical yearly sales 
meeting where new products are discussed, upcoming sales goals are 
announced as well as some sort of awards event. Unlike the monthly meetings


that may require not always being physically together as a team the yearly 
meeting should always require everyone to be physically present.

      These typically are several days long. These events must be well devised 
and planned. Don’t skimp on these events. Make sure the team comes away 
knowing the value you place on their participation in the success of the company. 
I find it helpful to bring in outside speakers when possible. There is the saying, 
“A prophet is never honored in his homeland.” An outside voice is often heard 
louder than someone from within the company just by nature of being from the 
outside. If you’ve followed the suggestions on great monthly meetings, you’ll 
already have a high bar set for what people expect from a meeting, and you will 
need to raise the bar for this yearly event!

      Allow some time to be outside of the meeting for the team to have natural 
moments to bond and interact with their fellow salespeople. This can be done at 
dinners, sports events, comedy shows (try improv where the salespeople can 
participate!), challenge courses, go-cart tracks, hiking, etc. One company I know 
had sailing races with the teams each crewing a boat after a morning of practice 
and instruction. With a bit of creativity, they made the entire meeting themed 
around sailing to draw parallels between selling success and sailing. The power 
and impact of the meeting came from the combination of increasing the sense of 
camaraderie and bonding between members of the team and anchoring that into 
a sensory experience relating it to their job of selling.


      Don’t schedule every minute full of meetings and presentations. If you’ve 
done the other meetings well throughout the year, this event becomes a very 
natural part of the year and one that the team enjoys. If geography and other 
circumstances permit, include a night where spouses and kids can be involved. 
In many sales jobs, the salesperson spends a lot of time away from the family 
traveling and including them here will be noticed. There is also a benefit from 
seeing this facet of our teammate’s life. It gives everyone a more robust view of 
their team resulting in closer and more authentic relationships.

      Plan the meeting in such a way that your team will finish the meeting 
feeling a “good tired,” not exhausted. They must walk out of the meeting with 
more energy than they had when they entered it only days previously. This is 
your opportunity to instill some of the company’s traditions. If none existed when 
you came on board, now is the time to create some that will outlive your time as 
the Sales Boss.

<A> Chapter 13: Individual Rhythms That Lead to Star Performances



<B>Individual Meetings Framework


      Individual meetings are where you build the relationship with your 
salespeople and customize the environment for growth. There are some 
important one-on-one meetings that you will have with your salesperson and we’ll 
outline what should be accomplished at each one. Before we start looking at the


tactical nature of what happens at these meetings, it is important to review your 
mindset and the “how you show up” at these meetings.

Remember the key points of the management code:


Don’t micro-manage – be actively engaged 
Honesty always – nobody should ever be surprised 
Be authentic – people are people
Be the thermostat- not the thermometer 
Trust & believe the best – but verify 
Believe bigger
The fault is always mine


      Our meetings with our salespeople always come from this place. The best 
Sales Boss spends eighty-plus percent of their time in the coaching and 
mentoring role with less than twenty percent in the boss and judge role. We will 
discuss each of these roles in detail.

      Show up at these individual meetings free of ego or predetermined 
judgments and with your highest EQ. Come to these meetings not to get your 
needs met, but to authentically help your salesperson. Recall that every 
salesperson is giving one hundred percent of what they are capable of or they 
have what they believe is a valid reason for not doing so. If you are unhappy


with the results of a salesperson on your team, your job is to figure out what is 
going on.

      A helpful framework for thinking about sales performance is using the term 
“boss” as an acronym: B.O.S.S. I always say that a salesperson should sell like 
a “Boss”, meaning from a place of authority. The acronym encourages them to 
look at the levers that impact their ability to sell: Behavior, Outlook, Skills, and 
Stature. I have found it to be a great starting point for the Sales Boss to look at 
the performance of the individuals on the sales team. Really when you consider 
it, there are just a few levers you can pull on the individual level that will impact 
sales results. BOSS captures these nicely.

<C>Behavior:

      This deals with the quantity and habits that your salesperson has. How 
many calls, visits, etc. make up their total activity? It can include things like their 
drinking, eating, and fitness. How organized are they? Are they utilizing sales 
resources and tools? It is WHAT they do, not HOW they do it. Think of it this 
way: You could have someone that is a wizard at making cold-calls and can get 
through to the decision maker every time! They have the perfect technique, 
but...if they never do the behavior of picking up the phone to dial or they do so 
infrequently then the fact that they are a wizard at it has no material impact on 
the sales they will make. You need a balance between behavior and technique.

<C>Outlook:


      This is the area that has the biggest impact on results once you have a 
team of A-players. Outlook is how they feel at any given moment. It changes. It 
could be their outlook towards themselves, their marketplace, the economy, the 
competition, the company, towards you or any other person or thing. It might 
even include things happening outside of the workplace. Your one-on-one 
meetings will allow you to understand their outlook. Be observant as to which 
outlooks have changed or are in the process of changing. The language they 
use will give you clues as to the emotions they are feeling. When someone is 
feeling defeated, pressured or angry, it is hard for them to turn in a winning 
performance. When one of your salespeople loses a deal that they worked hard 
on to a competitor are they hanging on to the feeling of defeat? Are they blaming 
some other department of the company for this result? “If only manufacturing 
could have delivered in a more competitive timeline!” Stay in tune with the 
changing outlook of your team members and you’ll be ahead of many sales 
performance issues.

<C>Skills:

      This is the HOW they do it, not the WHAT. How do they introduce the 
company? What types of questions do they ask the prospect? What is their body 
language and tone of voice? This is the skills development area. A salesperson 
could make double the number of visits as another salesperson on the team and 
if they lack the right techniques suffer from poor results. They could be working 
hard, but not effectively.


<C>Stature:

      This phrase is meant to capture the “essence” of how they are viewed by 
others. Do they have the weight of a consultant and the demeanor of a trusted 
advisor? Their look, their tone, their demeanor, their online presence or anything 
that changes the way they are viewed by the prospect can impact this essence.


<B>Three Types of Individual Meetings



      Let’s discuss three types of meetings: Pipeline Performance Review, Skills 
& Process Coaching, and the Sales Ride-Along. As with all meetings and 
rhythms find a way to name these meetings in a way that is unique to your team 
rather than use these generic labels.

<C>Pipeline Performance Review


      This meeting happens monthly. This meeting brings more of the Boss & 
Judge role to the table rather than the Coach & Mentor, although you’ll include a 
blend of all. During this meeting, you will discuss any key performance 
measures such as prospecting expectations, CRM usage, outstanding quotes, 
changes in outcomes that were previously forecasted, etc. Look at the top deals 
in the pipeline and have a deeper discussion about what is happening. Take 
some notes. From month-to-month, you’ll start to know when things change 
related to an opportunity. Last month they spoke excitedly about an opportunity, 
but now they’ve turned reticent. What has happened? It is only by taking good


notes that you’ll remember what was said in the past and taking notes honors 
them by letting them know you think it is important. Again, I would recommend 
using Evernote if you don’t currently have a system in place for tracking your 
notes. What stands in the way of closing these deals? How can you help? What 
resources do they need?

      Discuss their sales quotas and targets. Do they have enough in their 
pipeline to reach the target? If not, what action must they take? Are they using 
your company’s CRM and other systems as required? Although you might 
accomplish some “light coaching” during this session, it is more likely that if you 
see an area where skills based coaching is needed, you will take note and 
provide that training at another opportunity. During this meeting, you focus on 
the numbers. Again, with results comes less scrutiny. Dig deeper with folks who 
are struggling. Question the legitimacy of the numbers harder.

      Be sure to ask how they feel about their results and what they believe 
must be done. Get them to make commitments. You will encourage the heart but 
kick their butt as needed. They should not be looking forward to this meeting if 
they have been consistently underperforming, but if it’s just a recent slump they 
should be confident that this meeting would help them sort it out.

      An important portion of this meeting is to talk about upcoming meetings 
with prospects. You should ask why the visits are on the schedule, what their 
approach will be and the outcome they expect. Again, take notes. Evernotes.


Ask about these meetings on your next visit. It is through these discussions that 
you will get a feel for how “real” things are plus how your salesperson thinks and 
plans their prospecting visits. You might role play some of the calls ahead of 
time or help them identify internal and external resources that could be helpful as 
they prepare for the visit. Much of your coaching discussions can come from the 
difference between what the salesperson thought would happen and what 
actually happened.

      The salesperson’s forecasts come from this pipeline meeting and the 
importance of accuracy needs to be stressed. If you are getting wishy-washy 
answers from your salesperson or they are continuing to have issues that are not 
resolving despite your help and coaching, then this is the meeting where 
pressure should be increased progressively. If the underperformer pushes back 
it’s ok to remind them that they weren’t doing so hot before they came into your 
office. You are going to call their fluffiness (B.S), by looking at the numbers for 
phone calls, emails, travel expenses and pipeline.

An increasing level of pressure might sound like this:


“Steve, the last few meetings we’ve been talking about the need for you to 
increase the number of prospecting visits made each week in order for 
you to have enough in your pipeline to meet your goal. This is a solution 
you suggested yourself. Last time you thought it would be reasonable for 
you to increase that number to X. It looks like you didn’t reach that


number again. This isn’t like you. Normally you always deliver on what 
you say you will do. What happened?	 What do you think the 
solution might be? Ok, let’s do that. Let me ask you, if we are here again 
next month after you make this commitment and we are having this same 
discussion about you failing to do what you commit to, what do you think I 
should do? 	 How long would you allow this problem to go on 
without being taken seriously if you were responsible for the sales team?
	 I’m taking this seriously, Steve, because the company counts on 
us to deliver. Even more importantly, I know you set an earnings goal for 
yourself. How will failing to hit your money goal affect you? I remember 
you mentioned...”

      Usually when I see salespeople not take corrective action, it is because 
there were never clear conversations about what action should be taken and the 
salesperson was not involved in the solution. Get them to commit to the solution 
or even argue with you that it isn’t a problem. The worst thing you can have 
happen is for there to be an issue with nobody is talking about it. Be the Boss 
and sit in judgment. There should be no ambiguity about performance.

      Once you are done with this very thorough pipeline meeting, resist the 
urge to ask about the forecast for the rest of the month. Don’t ask for another 
update unless something critical demands it. Trust your team to deliver what 
they indicate. When they fail, this is the meeting to address it. I see too many 
sales managers get micro-focused on updates to the forecast that it actually


inhibits the actual work of selling. You should not be calling for updates 
repeatedly through the month as this will be seen as micro-managing and it will 
have little impact anyhow.


      When your efforts are focused on behaviors, outlook, skills and stature, 
the numbers will start taking care of themselves. Don't think you can run the team 
from the viewport of the CRM. I see plenty of sales managers who get addicted 
to the CRM. If you want to be the Sales Boss you should only use the CRM 
when you need it. Then put it away to go out and get dirty with the actual work of 
coaching, training, motivating, adjusting, and inspiring others on your team. For 
most size teams, I would spend less than 45 minutes in the CRM a day. If you 
get buried in emails, non-meetings, putting out fires, and approving expense 
reports, then it is your fault. I’ve heard these referred to as “Time Draculas,” as 
in “I want to suck your time!” The more busy work and administration work you 
do, the more confined your results will be.

<C>Skills & Process Coaching


      In addition to the skills training that is offered to the group, it is important 
that you have ongoing coaching on a one-to-one basis. These more intimate 
conversations will allow you to understand what is going on with your individual 
salespeople. Spend some time before your meetings reflecting on the behavior, 
outlook, skills and stature of the salesperson to plan in advance an area that you 
might focus on. Start with any area that is identified by the salesperson as an


area of need, but always have something to fall back on in case the salesperson 
indicates everything is fine. During this meeting you can assess the knowledge 
level of the salesperson to make sure they are tracking where they should be 
relevant to their time with your company.

      If you want to be a real master at the coaching aspect of your role as 
Sales Boss, be prepared to be present. This means that when you are one-on- 
one with your salesperson that you are fully with them and not still thinking about 
your last meeting, checking emails or otherwise sending the message that you 
are busy or multi-tasking. It is often in between the lines of the conversation that 
you will discover the real truth and in order to read between the lines you’ll need 
to be fully present. Start preparing before the appointed meeting time to clear 
your mind. Breathe deeply and contemplate the impact you’d like to have in the 
coaching sessions and show up fully present.

      Use role playing during your coaching. Typically, you will find that most 
people hate doing role play; however, it is one of the most effective ways to 
practice techniques. You can take the pressure off by acknowledging that role 
play isn’t 100% real, but that some truths come out in role play. If you are 
playing the prospect, resist the temptation to play gotcha. Role play scenarios 
that come up frequently and not the weird thing that happens once in a thousand 
calls. Make sure that you record these role plays since the salesperson's seeing 
and hearing themselves will allow them to grow in ways that won’t happen 
otherwise.


      One of the things you will notice in a sales team that role plays frequently, 
is that they have a high degree of mental flexibility. They increase the range of 
responses that are quickly available to them when they are in the selling 
situation. Have you ever been on a sales call and after leaving think, “I wish I 
would have said X or done Y.” This is an indication of not being mentally flexible. 
It took you too long to realize the position you needed to be in with the prospect. 
The goal is to think of what you wish to do or say while you are still in front of the 
prospect and can do something about it. When you role play with your team you 
will see this happen more frequently and they will get better at it over time. A few 
areas ripe for role play:

The first five minutes of a sales call 
Questioning skills
Overcoming stalls and objections 
Prospecting phone calls 
Presentation skills
Quote reviews 
Qualifying skills 
Negotiation

      You need to develop your list of what behavior, outlook, skills and stature 
that you want your salespeople to have. Make a written list and grade each area


as you have your coaching sessions. You might not show a salesperson the 
grading list, but it will serve to keep your coaching on target.

      A word of warning: After you have role played for months, it will be 
tempting to stop doing them as some of the practice will become repetitive. Don’t 
give in to this temptation. Think of these sessions as drills. If you were the 
coach of a sports team, you would continue to run the same basic drills no matter 
how talented the people on the team are. You can always get faster, stronger 
and commit key movements to muscle memory. You want the same from your 
selling team. Your future success is locked up in these coaching sessions.
Pipeline reviews are almost always looking back or responding to the next 
quarter of customer behavior and buying. Coaching is removed from this and 
serves to equip your salesperson for a lifetime of selling success. It keeps them 
healthy and in competitive shape.


      You can’t transform your company through coaching alone. You must 
connect the coaching to performance. The reality I see in companies is that 
salespeople are not raising their game as quickly as buyers are raising theirs. 
Consequently they show up late in the buying cycle, need to play catch up, 
discount pricing, and fail to establish themselves as the trusted advisor to the 
buyer. Are your salespeople capable of making the kind of sales call that the 
prospect would willingly write a check for? Do they bring that much value on the 
sales call or do you only get paid when the product and service is delivered?


      These coaching sessions are not the time for the usual questions I hear 
inexperienced sales managers ask: “Are you hitting your numbers? How many 
calls did you make? Are you following up? How many appointments did you 
schedule?” Those questions will surface at times in your pipeline meetings, but 
will only be present here if your coaching goal directly links to one of these types 
of questions. You’ll more often hear questions such as: What did you do well?
What’s the lesson here? What was the result you were looking for when you took 
that approach? How can I help you handle this better next time? What do you 
feel should change? What resources could have an impact? Where is the 
opportunity? How do you think this mindset is impacting your results? How are 
you feeling? What has your energy level been like lately? If that happens, then 
what? Why that way? What would you like to be doing that you aren’t already? 
What does success look like here? Looking forward, how do you see…?

When you are coaching, state things from the positive side when possible.

Only use fear and authority sparingly. Notice two approaches to the same 
problem:

“If you keep being disorganized your stress level is just going to increase and 
eventually this whole thing becomes an unmanageable mess. I don’t know why 
you don’t get organized. I hope I don’t have to bring this up again.”

Versus,


“If you follow through on some of the daily routines we’ve discussed, I think you’ll 
find your stress level goes down and you’ll continue to achieve at higher levels 
without being overwhelmed. I think you might even start enjoying your job again. 
Let’s do what we’ve discussed and next time we get together you tell me if it is 
helping. Fair?”

      Choose your words and approach carefully. You need your salespeople 
to have confidence and confidence comes from competence. Competence 
comes from training and experience. Make sure that your salespeople are 
learning from their experiences. I’ve met people who have been in sales for 
fifteen years or more and when I’ve done a sales ride-along it would be tough to 
know that they’ve had more than just a couple of years of experience. Does your 
salesperson have fifteen years of experience or one year of experience repeated 
fifteen times? If you don’t keep the conversation focused on incremental 
improvements your salespeople will plateau at the moment they start having 
some moderate levels of success. They’ll stop stretching themselves to be 
better. Your goal is to provide the environment and expectation for ongoing 
growth.

      During these one-on-one coaching sessions, you should be developing a 
good understanding of the goals and motivations of your salesperson. You’ll also 
discover how they define what success and greatness are. The real magic in 
these coaching sessions will happen when you find effective ways to grow their 
view of what is possible.


      What words typically define a coaching relationship? Here are a few. As 
you read the list, think back to the sessions you have with your salesperson. Are 
you accessing the entire range of coaching?

Asking 
Advising 
Agreeing 
Correcting 
Deliberating 
Directing 
Discussing 
Expressing 
Inspiring 
Instructing 
Probing 
Telling 
Guiding 
Leading 
Listening 
Reflecting 
Teaching 
Nudging


      While this isn’t an exhaustive list, it should help you to appreciate that you 
have a wide range of options when considering how to interact with someone.
Choose the method that is most likely to have results. We might tend to 
approach coaching in the way that is most comfortable for us when in reality we 
should be asking ourselves, "What is the most effective in achieving the desired 
change in the person being coached?"

      An effective coach is free of their need to look right, be looked up to, or 
prove a point. When you are having a session with your salesperson and find 
yourself feeling like there is a struggle for power or a tug-of-war, then you need to 
step back and make sure it isn’t your ego involved.

      There is a phrase sometimes used in communications classes called 
Always-Already-Listening. It refers to our predisposition to view something a 
certain way thus affecting what we hear or perceive in the communication. As an 
example, you might be of the opinion, “I hate classical music.” How would this 
affect your ability to judge a piece of classical music? At the very least you would 
have that voice in your head and be rolling your eyes as the first few notes are 
heard. You would be expecting to hate it. Someone else might listen expecting 
to love it.


      Think of the impact this Always-Already-Listening might have on our 
coaching if we have already decided this salesperson won’t change, isn’t up to 
the task, etc. Or perhaps we have a strong bias that a certain way of doing


something is always correct so it closes us off to hearing and exploring new ways 
to do things. This type of thinking pattern can hinder your flexibility and 
adaptability; and, thus your impact as a coach. As a caution to this, you should 
practice asking yourself, “Do I have evidence to support my opinions and 
assumptions or how I am feeling?” You might also ask yourself, “If what I am 
thinking/ feeling about this situation was not true, what might an alternate 
explanation be?” The key is to make sure our own biases aren’t causing 
unnecessary distortions in how we approach our coaching.

      Don’t fall in love with your own voice. Make sure that you are listening to 
your salesperson and that you are testing out what you hear to make sure you 
understand them correctly. People desire to be heard and there are some 
techniques that can help you from the world of coaching. It is a combination of 
reflective listening (where you repeat what has just been said), and clarifying.
Here are some example phrases:




For my own understanding… 
What you are truly saying is… 
What I just heard is…
Help me to understand further…

Can you tell me a bit more about that?

It sounds like the criteria you are using to make a decision are… 
What do you mean?


Can you rephrase that so I better understand?


      Each of these phrases, when combined with authenticity and curiosity, will 
help you to have clear communication and a bond with the person you are 
coaching.

      It’s essential to know when enough is enough. People can and will only 
change so much over a given period. You must be patient and realize that 
change will happen incrementally and is simply a part of an ongoing process. If 
you need massive changes from a salesperson, it is quite likely you have the 
wrong person on your team. Remember the cats shouldn’t be on your team. This 
coaching time is planned, not handed out to the squeakiest wheel.

      Video record some of your sales meetings and coaching sessions. Just 
like recording your salespeople’s role play helps them to improve, seeing your 
demeanor will also help you identify areas for improvement. I seriously 
recommend reading as many books specifically dealing with coaching as you can 
and even take a class on effective coaching. Better yet, hire a coach so you can 
experience what great coaching is. This is the skill that all of your other 
successes as a Sales Boss will hinge around. Above all, it will help you to realize 
that at times real coaching isn’t about “fixing” something. Sometimes you simply 
need to hear a person out and help reflect back their thinking and choices so 
they can see the best path forward. This view of coaching doesn’t require you 
always to be jumping in with a solution. Yes, there is a time to have a solution or


help fix the salesperson’s problem. It just doesn’t have to be every time. Your 
role sometimes is simply to be impressed with your salesperson and to believe 
great things are possible from them.

Let’s face it though, sometimes you have to be the bearer of bad news.

Sometimes you have to be the tough guy. One technique for delivering bad 
news is to trade a bit on the relationship, share respect that you have between 
yourself and the salesperson then “ask” for permission to deliver the news. This 
simple technique can lesson the instinct for the people to defend themselves and 
take a bit of the bite out without diminishing the strength of your message.
Here’s how that might sound:


“Can I point something out that might be tough for you to hear right now?”


“I have something I need to share with you, but I am afraid it might sting 
just a bit. I’m just sharing it as I know it will be for your good. I just need to 
know you are open to hearing it, ok?”

“You might not like what I am about to say, but my role is to speak the 
truth about what I see from my point-of-view. Can I share with you 
something you might be uncomfortable hearing but that I think is limiting 
you right now?”


“If you want help on this I need you to tell me you’ll be OK hearing some 
tough feedback...fair?”

“I know you are capable of more. Would it be OK if I just lay things on the 
line with you? I sincerely believe if you can take a look at this without 
getting upset that it would help your success.”

      These types of softening statements allow people to get emotionally 
prepared for what is coming next and it will lessen the likelihood that they’ll have 
a sharp reaction that they later regret.

Make time during your coaching sessions for involved recognition.

Involved recognition means that you don’t just say, “Good Job.” It means you are 
specific both on what was done, how it was done and the results it had on the 
client or company. It might sound like:

“I was really impressed with the way you handled ABC Company. Your 
persistence in getting in and understanding the key players helped 
position us to win the deal. When you were able to call their CFO directly 
and gain some insight into the process, it paid off. We couldn’t have won 
the new business without that. You should feel proud of your 
accomplishment!”


      Avoid following involved recognition with any statement that starts with, 
“But…”. Allow them time to bask in the recognition. A pro-tip is to write out the 
involved recognition and mail it to their home after you’ve praised them. It allows 
them to brag a bit to their spouse who wonders from whom the nice card arrived 
from in the mail today.

“Oh, it’s nothing. The Sales Boss just thinks I really made a difference in 
getting a nice piece of business for the company.”

      People might tell you they don’t need that kind of recognition, and some 
don’t. But everyone loves getting it, even if they don’t need it. You will see the 
behaviors you praised get repeated more often.

      You should also give opportunities for your Stars to take on new 
challenges and have a wider degree of impact. For instance, you might have 
them involved in planning trade-show events; help in launching or testing a new 
product; or serving on an industry panel or trade group board. You can talk 
about these enhanced opportunities during your sessions. One of the key drivers 
in keeping a Star happy is the need to feel like they are still growing and learning. 
Provide as much of these opportunities as possible while not distracting them 
from their key selling responsibilities. These additional activities should be 
directly related to growing their sales in some capacity.


      While these coaching sessions might be less formal than the pipeline 
reviews, you should still follow a general agenda so the time is not wasted. Most 
coaching sessions will grow organically and take on a shape of their own which is 
good, but you will also want enough structure to assure an outcome. A typical 
session follows this general format:

Small talk/ emotional check in 
Agree to expectations for the time 
Check in on past action items
Coaching conversation (may be specific issue or more free-form 
discovery)
Identify value and takeaways 
Commitment to any action steps 
Summarize and temperature check 
Conclude by reconfirming next meeting

      Don’t get stuck on the agenda format, but make sure that your time has 
had value and purpose. This isn’t just a chat.

      In addition to coaching sessions, you will want to include some joint sales 
calls, sometimes called ride-alongs if they are happening out in the field. Keep in 
mind all of the coaching strategies we’ve just discussed and use them while in 
the field.


<C> Effective Ride-Alongs


      As the Sales Boss, you are almost always in the mode of wanting your 
team to close the sale. This mindset can hinder you when you are out in the field 
with your salesperson. It is all too easy to be on the sales call and jump in to 
rescue them when they face what appears to be a problem. While this may 
seem to be helpful, it does not accomplish what a sales ride-along should. For 
these ride-alongs to have a real value, you must be willing to detach yourself 
from the outcome of the call and focus strictly on providing the training and 
feedback that will equip your salesperson to become better even if that means 
losing this sale.

      Your observational radar must be fully engaged when in the field. Don't 
spend time looking at your phone answering emails and otherwise be distracted. 
Be fully focused on the person you are with: How do they look, sound, interact 
and react to the prospect. What techniques do they utilize? How authentic are 
they? Are they well prepared and organized? Do they use good questions?
What stories do they tell to illustrate their ideas?


      There are a few types of ride-alongs and you will want to discuss ahead of 
time what type of ride-along a particular sales call will be so everyone 
understands the role they will be playing on the call. You might have:

<c>A Learning Ride:


The salesperson is in the observer role and you conduct the entire call. This can 
be helpful when someone is new to the company or your team. It is also 
effective when the salesperson must overcome a habit that is impacting their 
success, but they are having difficulty in understanding the impact a change 
would have. For instance, I teach salespeople a very structured start to a call 
that encourages the prospect to share early in the call. Sometimes a 
salesperson needs to see this approach in action and the dramatic difference in 
results from the prospect before they are comfortable adopting the approach.
When done simply in role play they can’t get over feeling as though the approach 
is canned, but seeing it in action they clearly see the magic in the approach and 
how natural it can sound.


      For this type of call to be successful, you should clearly state before the 
call why you are conducting it and the skill or technique that you want the 
salesperson to observe. After the call, you will want to debrief their observations. 
For instance you might say, “Steve, we have focused in our training on the need 
to probe deeper with our prospects before prescribing a solution. One of the 
ways we do this is by asking a series of questions before providing an answer.
On this call, I’d like you to observe what questions seem to have the most impact 
on getting the prospect to tell us the real issue. Make a mental note also of 
additional questions you think I should have asked but didn’t.” Notice how 
specific this directive is. It is not a generalized, “Watch me and learn!”

<c>The Silent Observer:


      On this call your goal is to participate as little as possible in the call. You 
still need the call to seem natural and to have a total mute on the call isn’t 
natural, but you will intentionally limit having any impact on the direction of the 
call. During the call, you will simply observe with the idea of being able to 
provide feedback. In this type of call, you must resist the desire to interject and 
influence the flow of the call. It is in these moments of observation you will be 
able to see how your salesperson thinks about the sales process and how that 
shows up in the field. Once again, if you are working on a specific skill, you will 
want to state that prior to the call and debrief afterward.


      You can go back to the list of training topics and all of these would be 
areas to focus on in this ride-along. You must be prepared to be specific in your 
feedback and cite real examples that happened on the call. Be comfortable 
giving a critique. You might also probe for understanding by asking why they 
chose to present something a certain way or ask a certain series of questions.
These learning insights will help you coach. I use the example with salespeople 
that I travel with of sitting down to a Thanksgiving meal and being asked to 
critique the meal. Sometimes everything tastes delicious and if I would have 
preferred a bit more of this or that spice it doesn’t mean it was a poor meal. So it 
is when I critique the sales call, it doesn’t mean it was bad it just is an opinion of 
how things might be spiced differently. You should start with the assumption that 
the sales call is done well and even if it is perfect, you will have 2-3 observations 
of areas for improvement. Your best salespeople will value feedback.


      Another key benefit on these rides is that you learn and discover what 
effectively works with your prospects as you observe some of the best people. 
You are then in a position to share these best practices with the rest of the team.

<c>The Tag Team:

      On this ride-along you are both fully participating in the call. Typically you 
will see this used when the deal is critical and the purpose of the ride-along is to 
provide further resources to help win the deal. In this scenario you aren’t there to 
teach the salesperson anything but are there to use your leverage and authority 
as the Boss to close the business. Sometimes this can come at a key 
negotiating stage and holds value when the customer perceives they are getting 
some additional attention beyond the salesperson by having the Boss available.

      As a general rule, I find that the best improvements come when the Sales 
Boss can do a minimum of two silent observer rides a year with the top- 
performer. Of course, new and up-and-coming stars might have monthly or 
quarterly ride-alongs. If possible, you should be out as often as you can without 
overwhelming the team. There is never a level of selling success at which you 
don’t ride-along with a salesperson at some point in the year. If your team is so 
large that riding along with everyone is impossible, then you might consider hiring 
an outside consultant to do some of these ride-alongs. Your team will never 
reach the highest level of performance without these live calls.


      If important parts of the selling process are conducted over the phone, you 
should also find a way to observe and give feedback. You might consider having 
some of the calls recorded so that you can analyze them with the salesperson 
after the fact.

      One of the things you will notice when you offer training is that many of 
your team will say, “Oh yes, I do that!” But in reality they don’t. Attending real 
sales calls with your team allows you to say, “This is what you actually do…” This 
clarity between what they think they do and what actually happens is what helps 
you to coach for results. Regular role-plays after live ride-alongs start to create 
confidence and mental flexibility in your sales team. They start to think more 
quickly and respond more accurately when in front of the customer.

      So far we have talked about formal meetings, your meetings with the 
entire group and your one-on-one meetings. In addition to these planned 
meetings, you should arrange in your week a time for an informal check-in via 
phone. This isn’t pre-planned, but it lets the salesperson know you are thinking 
about them. It might be as simple as, “Hey, I know you had that important call 
you were looking forward to with Mr. Smith. I’d love to hear how you felt it went!” 
or “Hopefully your flight happened without too many challenges.” “What new 
conversations are you most excited about?” “I saw you had a demo scheduled 
with X. What do they do?” These informal “tap on the shoulders” will let you be 
engaged and taking the temperature of your team without micromanaging.


      Once you have these regular meetings on your schedule, you should be 
able to more naturally avoid the “have-a-minute-meetings”. You know, those so- 
called quick stops by your office door with someone asking if you have a minute 
that end up eating up all of your time. You can reduce these by getting people 
thinking, planning and preparing for your scheduled meetings. When you first 
implement your rhythm of meetings, you will have some people that don’t come 
prepared to discuss their prospects and selling challenges then later that same 
day bombard you with questions. This is a good time to remind them that these 
are the perfect types of questions to ask during your team or individual meetings. 
As you continue to progress, you might even get in the habit of asking them if 
what they need help with is something that could wait until your scheduled 
meeting. Of course, there will always be last minute things that need an 
immediate answer and you don’t want to stifle conversations. Just make sure 
you are aware of your time. Train them to see the benefit of asking questions 
and discussing issues at your meetings where they have your full undivided 
attention so you are prepared to take notes to follow up or through on critical 
items discussed.

<A> Chapter 14: Keep Score Publically


      Once you understand your sales process and the key metrics that drive 
selling success, you should have the foundation for keeping score. Scores 
should be posted publicly. If you are using your CRM tool effectively, it is simple 
to have a visual dashboard that shows each of the key metrics in easy to


understand graphs. These dashboards should be seen not only when people log 
into the CRM, but you should also have a large screen TV in the office that 
publicly displays these real-time results. The results should be individualized so 
each person can see how they relate to the rest of the team. By doing this, you 
are leveraging the human behavior tendencies we discussed at the outset.
People want to belong and things are good or bad by comparison.


      If someone is having a bad month and they are fourth on the list regarding 
dollars sold, they will think to themselves, “I might be bad but I’m not that bad!” 
And they’ll work extra hard to rise on the list.

      Don’t list just the sales totals. List all of the metrics that are relevant to 
your team. Some companies list: total prospecting calls, live demos, lost 
accounts, total quote volume, win/loss percentages and margins. The key is you 
are trying to tell a story of what is important through the data that is displayed.
Beware of the unintended consequences that arbitrary numbers can have. For 
instance if there is a focus strictly on the number of quotes issued, you might find 
salespeople indiscriminately sending out quotes to unqualified prospects creating 
more follow up and support work for the rest of the team than is required. Make 
your scorecard balanced in a way that tells an accurate story and then coach for 
accuracy from your team. This combination will produce good and accurate 
results. The biggest metric at the end of the day should be money in the door.
More than any other role, selling is results based.


      While we post results publicly, it is almost never appropriate to publicly 
talk about a low performance from an individual with the entire group present. 
Simply having results posted is enough. When you are discussing the results as 
a group focus on the individual positives and the group improvements that are 
necessary. When you must talk specifically about an individual that is doing 
poorly, try to do so in private. This is a balance between posting publically and 
respecting the emotions of each person on the team. We don’t hide poor 
performance but we don’t do public beatings. One of the advantages of publicly 
posting results is that their competitive nature will apply a natural motivational 
pressure that will improve results and you won’t need to create that pressure 
arbitrarily.


      A powerful way to use the visual dashboard during meetings is to hold 
your stand-up meetings with the dashboard visible. You can teach your team 
how to think about the dashboard results by your skillful use of questions: What 
does the trend in outgoing quotes likely mean for our results next quarter? What 
is the correlation between the increase of new business and the decrease in 
prospecting activity telling us? What should we be focused on if we want to 
sustain the success we are having? Based on the numbers, what activities 
should be most critical for us to focus on this week?


      The Sales Boss embraces metrics, and uses the results to teach, coach 
and diagnose; but then gets to the heart of what the metrics are telling him about


his market and the people on his team. It is much like a doctor that uses blood 
tests to indicate where to look for the cause of disease. In the end, it is what is 
done with those tests in creating a treatment plan and executing the plan for the 
health of the patient that has real meaning. By themselves the blood test results 
are meaningless. Make sure that the data you post publicly has a reason for 
existing.

<A> Chapter 15: Lead by Principle, Not Policy


      I remember walking into a prospective client’s office and being impressed 
by how exquisite the decor was. It was like what you would imagine a very high- 
end attorney firm’s offices would look like with expensive hardwoods and 
finishes. Before meeting with the client, I asked if I could use the restrooms. The 
restrooms were equally nice! What was odd though was as I left the restroom 
there was a paper sign taped to the mirror: “Please wash your hands.” Another 
sign was crudely taped to the door: “Did you remember to flush?” As I was led 
back to the offices, there were similar signs with reminders by the copier, the 
break room and other areas outlining behavior.

      My question is, how many people were not flushing the toilet to make the 
need for a sign? How many were not washing their hands, putting their dishes 
away or filling the paper tray on the copier?


      My guess is that only a few people created this problem, but rather than 
address those offenders the person in charge made up signs and rules for 
everyone. I see the same habit by some sales managers. There might be an 
issue with one person, but rather than address that issue they’ll issue a new rule 
or policy to the entire team. This is not the way of the Sales Boss.

      The best Sales Bosses, lead by principle rather than rules. They trust 
their team to make good decisions. When someone acts out of harmony with the 
company’s principles, then they handle it on a case-by-case basis. For example, 
in many sales organizations, there is a stipulated per-diem that is paid to the 
sales person when they travel overnight. The company might stipulate how 
much can be spent on hotel, breakfast, lunch and dinner or even treating a 
prospective client. Many times there is tension between the salesperson and the 
manager as disagreements arise over whether the amount is adequate for the 
area they are traveling in.

      One company handled this differently. They simply set the principle that 
when it came to travel the company is frugal so that more of the money earned 
can be paid out in actual benefits. The budget for travel that was allocated but 
not used would be rolled over into other company programs. This was the 
principle. They didn’t set any rules. What they also did was publish publicly 
each month the average amount each salesperson spent on a night’s hotel and 
meals. What do you think happened to the “big spenders” habits? Over time, 
they took control of their spending and an average soon emerged as the norm for


overnight expenses. Interestingly this “norm” was less than the amount the 
company would have stipulated if they would have designed rules and nobody 
was ever upset that the amount allocated wasn’t fair or adequate.

      How far you take the position of setting principles rather than rules may 
depend on the culture of your company, but you should use your influence to go 
as far towards leading by principles as possible. Remember that outside of the 
office your salespeople lead and manage every aspect of their life and most are 
fully capable of managing themselves responsibly at work when they understand 
the principles. Some companies have taken this so far as to not have a set 
number of vacation days or set work hours and they rely on the principle that 
people will work hard to get the task done and live a balanced life. What they 
have discovered is that people very rarely abuse the system.

      Think about the change in work habits since smartphones have become a 
part of our lives. Our employees end up being “on” all of the time. They take 
care of their prospects and clients almost no matter the hour of the day or night. 
Stipulating exact hours for work should be reserved for inside sales positions that 
require it. An outside traveling salesperson will by the nature of the job have long 
travel days and be away from home. Your company gets almost 24 hours daily 
of their time. On the weeks they’ve traveled heavily, does it make sense that you 
would ask them to come in on Friday and stay until five? You should give them 
the flexibility to reclaim some personal time for themselves and their family.
Require them in the office only if you have an important meeting and a real


reason to need them that day. This isn’t a day off; they’ve put in their time and 
are reclaiming that time.

      While we are talking about principles rather than rules as it relates to 
travel, I believe it is important to give some additional thought to what we require 
from our sales team. The highest performing teams do not require travel every 
week away from home for a salesperson. I have watched many companies 
implement an out on Monday return late Thursday or early Friday then repeated 
the next week. If this is the rhythm of your team, it will have bad long-term 
consequences. Some of these include:

Poor planning and preparation for selling activities 
Poor follow up on leads
Exhaustion and weaker sales performance


      Nobody wants to sustain that lifestyle once they have kids or get married 
and so your best people will eventually look to go to work for a company with a 
more balanced schedule. The only salespeople that will stay on your team long 
term are the ones that fear they don’t have any better options- your poorest 
performers, your cats.

      To summarize: Use principles instead of rules where possible. We’ve 
discussed Sacred Rhythms; these would be the things that are unbreakable and 
inflexible. Everything else should have some leeway. When you do this


correctly, the team appreciates the balance and doesn’t mind that you take 
seriously the sacred rhythms you've put in place.

<A> Chapter 16: Make Sales Technology Work For You


      I’ve never met a salesperson that loved doing the administrative tasks of 
entering data or providing reports to management. However you and the rest of 
the management team need visibility into the activity of the individual on the 
sales team so you can forecast, predict inventory and an entire host of other 
reasons. When it comes to gaining full adoption of sales technology by the sales 
team, you will struggle unless you get it right from the beginning.

      The primary thing that allows for success when asking the sales team to 
utilize some form of technology is to think about the technology from the start as 
a way to increase the team’s effectiveness and simplify the many tasks that they 
have to accomplish. Your mindset and belief must be that this is for them and 
not for you or the rest of the management team. Yes the management team 
needs the data, but just don’t build the system to be easy for you. Make it easy 
for them.

      First, make sure the team knows that it is important and that it is not 
optional. Automate reminders to them when critical data is missing. For instance 
if they haven’t logged into the system for some days or if their forecasts run 
behind, the system can be set to ping them with a reminder. When the


automated system pings them, it is viewed as a reminder. When a person 
reminds them, it can become viewed as nagging.


      You will also need to have some increasing penalties in place for not using 
the system. I have seen companies include penalties such as reducing eligible 
commissions by a point or excluding a repeat offender from the company bonus 
pool. Chasing the team to get them to utilize the system isn’t an option. If they 
want to be on the team, they use it. In extreme cases, I would go so far as to 
dismiss a salesperson if they consistently refuse to use the system after 
providing appropriate coaching. I might offer them the option of hiring an 
administrative assistant to do the work if they are a real star and not replaceable.


      The critical thing is to get the data you need to help inform your running of 
the team. Do not, however, run your team from behind the CRM! If you spend 
more than an hour a day combing through the CRM, you might want to 
reconsider how you use it. Those pretty graphs never sold anything.

      Second, make sure that your system is user-friendly, does not require 
duplicate entry of data and makes their job easier as a result. Don’t ask them for 
information that they’ve already put into the system that you could simply look up 
yourself. I’ve seen sales managers ask their people to keep the pipeline up-to- 
date and the salesperson does so only to have the manager call them and ask, 
“What do you think will close this month?” They could have simply looked at the 
dashboard! If they want to discuss the pipeline, then it should be on a deeper


level and done during the monthly pipeline review. Have you ever sat through a 
PowerPoint presentation where someone just read you the slides? Was it 
frustrating? Likewise it is frustrating for the salesperson, if you have a meeting 
where they just read back to you what is on the screen of the CRM after they 
took the time to enter the data.

      There is a wide range of tools for the sales team and a full review is 
beyond the scope of this book. However, I will give you some checklists to 
consider when evaluating your systems and making enhancements.

      Perhaps the largest tool the team will interact with is your CRM (Customer 
Relationship Management). This is where all the names of your customers live 
along with all the information you have and will accumulate about them. The 
options range from the simple to the intricately complex. Your CRM should allow 
at a minimum:

Tracking of sales opportunity 
Monthly Pipeline and forecasts 
Automated follow up tasks
Automated logging of phone calls and all emails (from all mobile devices) 
Appointment coordination and scheduling
Entering prospects into targeted marketing funnels (emails & direct mail) 
Access to the latest marketing collateral: videos, print, electronic
Bid, quote or proposal generation


Sales dashboards

Leads database and research portal 
Voice data entry
Customer portal: Issue resolution etc. 
Mapping capability if fieldwork is required
An auto-dialer if a majority of selling is on the phone 
Lead scoring
Contact aging: Lets you know if an important contact hasn’t been visited in 
awhile.

      If you need to see what a modern CRM system should look like and the 
capabilities, you can visit salesforce.com to see one of the leading solutions. 
Youtube has many videos of their system.

      If you are a small business, you might consider Infusionsoft. Infusionsoft 
is leading the way in how small businesses follow up with their customers and 
prospects. Also, the leading players in the CRM space will have an ecosystem of 
plugins that are created by outside vendors that will expand the usefulness in 
getting the system customized for your particular need or industry.

      The key is that the system should be powerful, yet simple. It should allow 
each salesperson to configure their workspace to match their style of working.
When the system is simple, your team will use it willingly as they’ll see the 
difference it makes in their effectiveness. If your system is so out of date that it


resembles something you’d encounter at your local driver’s licensing office, then 
you’ll need to advocate for a change. Until a change can be implemented, you 
will need to find the least painful workarounds for your sales team and openly 
admit to them that the system is archaic.

      Another tool is email. Email has become so ubiquitous we rarely think 
about how we use it and yet according to one estimate, most people spend up to 
75% of their work time reading, writing and responding to email! This is an area 
you can help the team with reclaiming some of their time.

      Before jumping into managing the flood of emails, we should note that a 
Sales Boss doesn't sit behind his desk firing off email demands requesting 
updates or chiding some performance. Use email sparingly. Reserve email for 
an exchange of information and use the phone or face-to-face whenever you 
can. The sound of your salesperson’s voice will tell you things that no email 
could.

      The most forward-looking teams have evolved away from email for much 
of their internal communication. Let me explain why. Have you ever been on a 
chain email where five or more people are copied? And everyone replies all?
And attaches versions of the latest document? By the time you get to the string of 
emails, you are lucky to sort it all out and make sure you haven’t missed 
something critical! Sometimes we get so overloaded we simply quit reading 
them all. There is a much better way. You should consider using tools such as


Chatter or Slack for all group communication. If you haven’t used these yet, you 
should research the possibilities.

      They work much like our social media feeds work but for business. You 
can follow (like you would on Twitter) people or projects. So for instance if you 
have a project going on with XYZ Company, you can start a feed called “XYZ 
Company Project.” Anyone with permission can view this “feed”, comment, 
upload the latest files, etc. Marketing, engineering, sales, and service can all 
stay on the same page. Everything is in one place and organized with the latest 
data. Nothing gets lost in the email pile. Need someone on your team to take 
notice and action? You simply mention them using @name and they get a notice 
right on their smartphone. Advanced systems even allow your customers to be 
involved in feeds. When a new team member is added, they can get up to speed 
quickly on existing projects.

      Clean out your email clutter by using a group-messaging tool. Don’t be 
intimidated by new technology as they are simple to use and will alleviate a big 
headache. Younger employees will take to this system intuitively as they’ve been 
raised using such tools in their personal lives.

      For the remainder of the stuff in your inbox, you should teach your 
salespeople some email etiquette. This is as simple as what to put in the subject 
line and when to CC everyone or not. One company I worked with has these 
simple rules:


      All Internal email’s subject line start with an indication describing the 
response needed:

NRN means, "No response needed, but needs to be looked at." 
URGENT means, "Urgent Response Today" (If a response is needed in 
hours the phone is used)
Respond (week/month/any):

FYI means, "Information shared just out of possible interest."


      This abbreviation is followed by a description of what is contained in the 
email. An example might be, NRN: Summary of last week’s visit with Thompson 
& Co.

      On all emails a response is only ever required from people on the “to:” line 
not the “CC” line. Responses should only be to the one originating the email and 
not a “Reply-all”. If everyone on the email would benefit from seeing all the 
responses, the originator, after getting all the responses would send out a 
summary email to the entire group with the group’s comments:

NRN: Summary of the group’s ideas for the company picnic.


      Even better these group emails would be moved into Slack.com's 
application. For longer emails, the phone should be used instead. If a subject is


time critical, a phone call or text message is preferred. You will be amazed at the 
time and energy you will save if you take the time to teach your team how to use 
email and other communication tools appropriately.

      Consider using a file-naming convention for any documents shared 
internally at the company whether via email or on company intranets. Much time 
is wasted trying to locate and identify the right document at the time you need it. 
If you have a handful of salespeople sending you documents it can quickly 
become a disaster! I once was looking for a PowerPoint presentation and found 
these in my file folder on the computer:
Sales Presentation
Sales Presentation Chicago 
Sales Presentation Version Two 
Sales Presentation Final Version
Sales Presentation Final Final Version 
Sales Presentation Last Version

      Can you guess how many files I had to look through to find the right 
presentation? All of them. And then I found the right file: Chicago Final Sales 
Presentation!

      A file-naming convention just means we agree as a group on how to name 
a file. One company uses this pattern:


{Descriptive Name}.{Version #}.{date}.{Initials of Author}


Chicago Final Sales Presentation becomes: 
ChicagoSalesPresentation.V5.Sept 2015.JW

The Weekly Sales Reports become: SalesReport.Sept2015.JW


Customer Quotes become:Quote.XYZCompany.V2.Sept2015.JW


      When implemented, it becomes easy for me to find the latest sales report 
from anybody on my team or the quote for my customer. Create good digital 
housekeeping rules and your job will become much easier. It helps teach people 
to be organized in the way they run their business. It takes a bit of an effort on 
the front end getting people disciplined enough to get into a new habit, but it will 
save you much time, energy and effort in the future. While it may seem 
insignificant to spend time considering how we handle the exchange and storing 
of information within our sales team and company, it is an area the Sales Boss 
will recognize as having an impact on results. The ease and speed of 
exchanging important information will allow you to serve your customers more 
effectively, create less frustration and mistakes, and free up time that can be 
used for selling while being face-to-face with prospects. Without fail, when I have 
seen a high-performing team there has always been structure evident in the way 
they communicate.


<A> Chapter 17: Money Talks: Compensation Planning

      Most people who find themselves in sales and who make a career out of it 
do so because amongst other things they know that sales is where the money is. 
Your ability to design a plan that moves all of the right levers is intrinsic to your 
success. As we jump into a talk about compensation, I’ll make two initial 
observations that you should be aware of:

1.	In some companies a jealousy develops between the other members of 
the company and the salespeople. The finance people and some of the 
other executives see the “outsized” paychecks of the top performers and 
don’t see them always reporting into the office then as they see the 
salesperson’s compensation surpass their own they get jealous. This 
behavior will show up in many ways. You might start noticing executives 
in the finance or Human Resources department nitpicking each and every 
expense report. You’ll hear sarcasm from them when mentioning that a 
salesperson landed a nice size deal. They’ll say things like, “Well that 
customer was going to buy anyways. They didn’t do anything special.” 
When you notice these behaviors you will need to be proactive. Your job 
is to make sure the entire company knows how tough it is out in the field 
doing sales, the sacrifice in time away from family and other challenges 
the salesperson endures. They earn their money and the entire company 
eats because the salesperson closed a deal. Make sure nobody forgets 
or begrudges the hand that feeds them.


2.	Make sure you aren’t overpaying. This may seem a contrasting 
statement; however, your company should only be paying as much as it 
takes to keep the best in the industry. Some jobs are only worth so much. 
When you overpay you are taking away from funds that could be used for 
research and development, new equipment, marketing, or technology 
innovations. The proper plan balances the need to keep great people with 
the need to retain and reinvest revenue in the other parts of the company. 
You can strike the right balance by looking at compensation studies to see 
what your competition is paying. Companies such as ERI provide this 
service (erieri.com). Don’t rely on free services on the Internet or “the 
word of a recruiter”. Pay the few hundred dollars it will take to get a 
scientific and data-rich report. Also when you hire salespeople from other 
companies, if you are following our guidelines, you are asking to see their 
historical earnings verified by their W-2 or other payroll record so you will 
start seeing patterns in the industry that will back up your report. We’ll talk 
more on setting a range in a bit.

   An entire book can be written about compensation planning and indeed many 
great ones have which you might also look to for help. In this chapter, I will 
simply highlight what should be considered best practices and what I’ve seen 
work or fail to work in the plans I’ve witnessed. After reading this, you’ll have the 
foundation for a plan that works to drive selling success. Compensation plans 
should always be as simple as possible for your team to understand on the 
individual salesperson level. If however, the holistic plan is complex due to the


nature of your company with several layers of sales teams then this is an area 
where you would be well served to consider bringing in an outside compensation 
expert who can help you consider all of the ramifications of the various options 
available and the legal consequences of each. In most companies, crafting an 
effective plan is well within the capabilities of the executive team as long as you 
follow some of the basic principles shared in this chapter.


Here are the top four things that must be true about any plan:


1.	Your compensation plan allows you to attract, retain and even steal 
superstar salespeople from your competition. It keeps your stars happy.
2.	It connects to the longer-term strategy of your organization while not 
penalizing the team.
3.	It is simple to understand and each measure is directly tied to something 
within the salesperson’s control.
4.	There must be a wide margin between the total comp of star performers 
and average performers.

   Let’s recognize how difficult finding real Stars is and you should never risk 
losing a Star because of some inequality or flaw of your compensation plan. 
Second, your compensation plan will influence how your team spends their time. 
You should carefully consider the intended and unintended consequences your 
plan will have on their behaviors. For instance, a plan that strongly incentivizes 
opening new accounts could serve the unintended consequence of team


members ignoring existing customers and failing to grow the depth of products 
sold into these customers. If this happens, what is your plan for dealing with this 
unintended outcome?


   Comcast serves as a cautionary story for what can happen when a 
compensation plan is built on the wrong premise. Comcast designed a plan that 
incentivized a sales rep when they were able to convince a customer that was 
calling to cancel their cable subscription to stick with the company instead of 
canceling. The Internet was soon flooded with recorded phone calls that 
frustrated consumers had when they were strong-armed by Comcast reps who 
did everything they could to keep people from canceling so they could pocket a 
commission. If you Google “Comcast customer service calls frustrated”, you can 
listen in on the unintended consequence that came from the decision to 
compensate this way.


   When designing your plan, always consider how it will act once you release it 
into the wild! What will your team do with it in the pursuit of maximizing their 
income? Typically a sales compensation plan will consist of three parts: base 
salary, variable commissions, and bonuses. Let’s define the key aspects of each 
area.

<C>Base Salary:

      This is the portion of your sales person’s compensation that is guaranteed. 
I have encountered many companies that wish to have a “commission only” sales


position thinking that it limits the risk the company takes in hiring a new 
salesperson. While this might seem true on the surface, it rarely works out that 
way. Usually this method is chosen because a company lacks the ability or 
discipline to make great hiring decisions and offers little training. You will never 
build or attract a superstar this way. A star salesperson knows their worth and 
will always have the option for a job that has some base built into the plan. If you 
are building a sales team you should always include a base salary when the 
team member is starting with the company. You might choose to have this base 
salary decrease with time as the salesperson builds up a book of business and 
they have a consistent level of commissions, but your plan should be designed in 
a way that doesn’t make this seem like it is punishing success. Some companies 
have simply given a higher base-rate during the training time period and a lower 
commission then give the sales rep the initiative to choose when they move to a 
higher commission level and sacrifice the base pay.

<C>Variable commissions:

      This is the portion of the compensation that is based upon selling or some 
other revenue generating activity performed by the salesperson. This should be 
tied to things the salesperson directly impacts. For instance if you have 
appointment setters who pass the appointment onto a field salesperson, they’d 
get a commission on setting the appointment regardless of how the deal ended 
since they don’t directly impact the close; whereas the field person would only 
get a commission on closing the deal, not the setting of the appointment.


      A word of caution is in order here: When you choose these variables you 
must be certain that your company is in a place where you can accurately and in 
a timely way measure and report on these variables. You don’t want to be in a 
place of arguing with your team or making judgment calls when it comes to how 
things are calculated.


<C>Bonus:

      This can be actual compensation or other incentives that are included to 
influence certain types of activity. An example of this would be when a company 
pays a one-time amount for each new customer that the salesperson closes that 
has not previously purchased from the company. This can also take the form of 
non-cash incentives. You often hear of reward trips and other spiffs. One 
company I know leases a high-end luxury car and the keys are passed each 
quarter to the person who has the largest percentage gain in new customers. I 
can tell you the team really competes to see who’ll be driving in style! If you can 
have some over-the-top perk for someone that is #1 in whatever behavior you 
are trying to incentivize (not always the top earner), you will see a big impact on 
the team. Give it some thought and creativity.

      How do we set the total compensation and what is the right mix? In 
Human Resources circles, you will hear the term TTC meaning Total Target 
Compensation. Here is what it means for setting your team’s compensation: Your 
entire mix of compensation (base, variable, bonus) should equal a target amount. 
This target should be set based on the industry compensation study I mentioned


previously using the 90th percentile (meaning this level is above 90% of others in 
the industry). Then it gets adjusted this way: Calculate your plan based on your 
company’s historical salespeople’s sales so that 50% of the team would have 
achieved the TTC, 30% would fail to reach the TTC level and 20% would exceed 
the level.

      What this means in practice is that your superstars will not only far out 
earn the bottom people on their team, they will also be significantly better 
compensated than any of their industry peers and you’ll be at no risk of losing 
them. Your middle performers (who if you are doing it right are still pretty darn 
good) will be making as much as they could in most places, so likely won’t leave. 
Your bottom performers will do ok (remember we don’t keep cats), but they will 
have incentive to keep stretching themselves. Everybody is happy. The gap 
between your very best performers and your bottom performers should be 
significant as this will drive the hunger to keep performing and improving skills.
Remember that we suggested posting results publicly and if you have hired 
correctly you won’t have people who are content knowing that they left some 
possible money on the table. This doesn’t mean that you have “low performers” 
or cats, it just means that the very best have the ability to really distinguish 
themselves and you might even see the names at the top of the list change 
places with those on the bottom from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. In fact, 
if you have someone who is always in the bottom and failing to reach the TTC 
level then you likely have someone you should be considering replacing.


      Now that we have set the TTC, the second thing to answer is how do we 
decide on what the mix should be between base, variable and bonus? The basic 
answer is this: The higher the skill needed to close the business and the more 
impact the salesperson’s activity has on the outcome, the more the 
compensation should be weighted in the variable component. The lower the 
impact, the higher the base should be. In the latter case the TTC would also 
usually be lower. Using this formula allows you to pay the highest compensation 
levels when the highest level of skill is needed and to control costs when the job 
is more on the level of “order taking” than selling.

      A more skillful art is making sure that no salesperson can live comfortably 
in the lifestyle they are accustomed to on the base salary you provide. Here is 
where your knowing “How much is a lot of money?” in the eyes of your new 
salesperson is critical. You will want to make sure that the salesperson’s lifestyle 
can only be maintained by exceeding sales targets. This is both science and art. 
The reason for this should be obvious and goes back to understanding what 
makes humans work. All of us tend to slow down our efforts when we reach a 
level of comfort. I know that in my own case I use to have no problem putting in 
fifteen-hour days and traveling non-stop for business. I was hungry and trying to 
establish myself. Now as I have reached a level of comfort and success to 
longer worry about where the next mortgage payment is coming from, it is a bit 
more difficult to want to hit the road so hard. You and your salespeople are the 
same. The only difference between each human is what level they need to be at


to hit the comfortable button and slow their activity. Make sure the base that you 
provide doesn’t allow them to reach that button. You need them to stretch.

Some final best practices on compensation:


1.	Don’t change plans mid-year or suddenly. When you change plans mid- 
year it interrupts the rhythm of your team. Nothing is more personal than 
how a person gets paid and even if the change is good, it will distract 
some of the mental energy your team should be spending on selling. 
Teams typically expect changes at the end of a year and you should 
leverage this expectation when you need to make changes by choosing 
this time of year and by talking early about the upcoming changes plus 
why they are being made. Also, when you are making changes you’ll want 
to avoid changes that will negatively affect the amount a person earns 
when they perform at the same level as in the past. If you must make 
these types of negative impact changes, plan to use you EQ and be as 
authentic as possible when sharing the business reasons why this change 
must take place.

2.	Always issue the plan before the time period it covers (I’ve seen 
companies issue a plan six months into the year, all the while the sales 
team is wondering how they get paid!)


3.	Pay any variable comp as close to the pay period where the sale closed 
as possible. I call this the Pavlov dog principle. You want them 
connecting the bump in their bank deposit to the sales event and the 
behaviors that created the sale. Sometimes companies wait till the invoice 
is paid and then it’s six months after the sale happened. This isn’t ideal. If 
your company chooses to reduce risk by waiting until funds are received 
on a sale and the collection process is lengthy, you might try offering a 
partial bonus immediately on reporting and the remainder when the funds 
are fully received. The key is to have the salesperson “feel it in the bank 
account” while they are actively doing all of the right behaviors so a 
stronger connection is made.

4.	Have a dashboard or some other method of communicating exactly what 
they are being paid for, how much they are owed and how it has been 
calculated. I’ve had sales guys not understand how they were getting paid 
or just be randomly surprised when the bonus funds show up in their 
account. You want them to be absolutely certain of what it takes to move 
the money needle for their family. When you create this dashboard and 
certainty on how they are being paid, it has the side effect of also 
demonstrating how behaviors such as discounting to close the sale, 
impact their paycheck.


5.	Don’t have more than a couple of items being measured for variable or 
bonus and make sure they are things that are readily visible and easily 
measured.

   I’m often asked about a couple of other areas related to compensation and I’ll 
give my thoughts and the reasoning behind the thought:


<C> What about “House Accounts?”



      When a client asks me about house accounts they typically mean some 
book of business or customers that existed prior to the salesperson’s 
involvement. The concern is usually that the salesperson didn’t have to initially 
bring this business in the door and my client feels that they shouldn’t be paid on 
the business and so has labeled a handful of clients as house accounts. While 
this is understandable, I think it is shortsighted to completely block these house 
accounts from the new salesperson. The key reason is that house accounts 
typically represent some of the oldest and most loyal customers of a company 
and because of this serve as a rich source of referrals and leads. If we block the 
salesperson from profiting from these accounts we also reduce the ability and 
incentive for them to establish meaningful relationships with these customers. As 
a result, the level of referrals is never optimized. I would suggest that the 
salesperson take full responsibility for these house accounts but for a period of 
time the level of commission based on direct sales into these companies be a 
reduced commission with a path to full commissions available after they’ve


completely assumed and solidified the relationship with the existing customer. 
Also the customer has indicated their trust in the salesperson by offering referrals 
and new business opportunities that didn’t exist previously. This balance usually 
has the best outcome for everyone.


<C> How should we pay on consumables or parts?

      Consumables refer to products that get used up and reordered on a 
regular basis. For instance, a company might sell a piece of equipment that 
requires utilizing some type of packaging, chemical, or parts that wear out on a 
regular basis and must be replaced. Sometimes a company will include these 
consumables or part in the compensation plan and others will exclude it. Here is 
how I think about it: If the salesperson has or could have a measure of influence 
in the amount consumed then they should be paid on the consumable. These 
consumables can form a bit of annuity for the established salesperson and it 
serves as a wonderful recruiting tool when competing for the best sales people.


      The danger is that after a period of working hard, the salesperson might 
reach a level of comfort that comes from the income on these consumable 
annuities each year, and slow down on hunting for new business. As the Sales 
Boss, you will need to monitor this risk and have an appropriate plan in place. I 
have seen companies accomplish a balance by having the annuity payment 
percentage reduce in subsequent years. So for instance if they pay out 5% of 
consumable orders in year one to the salesperson then over a period of five


years that percentage may reduce to 1% as the customers buying behavior 
becomes entrenched and less effort is needed from the salesperson.


      As we end this discussion on compensation, it should also be noted that it 
isn’t always necessary or preferable to have money be the only form of incentive. 
Think of it this way, if you were to give a bonus of a few thousand dollars to an 
employee how long would they remember it for? I would suggest that they’d only 
remember it for a very short period of time. What would happen though if instead 
of the cash you offered them a menu of vacations that they could pick from to 
take their family on? How long would they remember that? Likely, they’d 
remember it forever. Certainly during the few days they are on the beach with 
their family they’d be filled with positive feelings about their job and your 
company. They’d remember it each time they looked at the pictures and they’d 
relive it each time they recounted the stories of the trip to their friends. When 
they returned to the office they’d posses a level of energy that would pay 
dividends to the rest of the team. When a headhunter comes to take your best 
sales people they’ll remember the emotions and not the pay. As a Sales Boss, 
give some real serious thinking to how you might utilize this idea of non-cash 
compensation to give experiences. It will increase the feeling of belonging and is 
a powerful tool to build your team’s cohesiveness.
<A> Chapter 18: Forecasting the Future


One of the necessary evils of being the Sales Boss is forecasting revenue.

To say that forecasting is the bane of existence for most sales managers is an 
understatement. I would go so far to say that if a sales manager had a choice to 
complete the forecast or go to the dentist for a root canal then the sales manager 
might just have a monthly visit to the dentist! The term forecast is used 
differently in different sales organizations, but broadly speaking it is the crystal 
ball that a company asks the sales manager to look into to predict what revenue 
will be produced, from which channels the revenue will come from and when the 
company can expect it to show up on the books. Sometimes this is the sales 
budget prepared at the beginning of the year followed by changes and updates 
through the rest of the year.


      Most sales managers struggle to get the forecast right. The one thing that 
can be said with certainty is that the forecast is almost certainly only accurate as 
a reflection of the hopes the sales manager has on the day it is submitted. I tend 
to think of it as a list of gifts a child writes for Santa Claus. Some of the gifts they 
get, some they are surprised by when it shows up under the tree and some 
clearly didn’t ever stand a chance of happening like world peace but was on the 
list anyways just in case this year was different!


      What are some of the reasons forecasts are notoriously difficult? To begin 
with it is a battle between two opposing forces: Reality and the desire to look 
good. When you ask your salespeople what things they feel will close, the


tendency is to be optimistic. When you are asked to provide next year’s numbers 
you know the C-level won’t be happy with a line that trends down or even just 
slightly uphill. It’s easy to submit the optimistic number and spend the next 
twelve months chasing it. The second challenge with getting the number right is 
having accurate and meaningful data. The problem with getting the forecast 
wrong is that it throws off the rest of the planning the company might undertake. 
It also hurts your credibility as the team falls short each month. It is imperative 
that you try to get as close as possible. I tend to think of close as being within
10-20% on a month-by-month basis. Of course this percentage really depends 
on the scale of the number you are forecasting. If you want to produce better 
forecasts, it is incumbent upon you as the Sales Boss to take a different 
approach than just a routine inspection of the numbers modified by a gut feel.


      If you have followed the advice contained in this book so far, you’ll already 
be well positioned to improve your forecasts. This is because you will have a 
unified sales process across the team, you’ll have good data in your CRM and 
you’ll have had regular coaching sessions with the team and accompanied them 
in the field. Having a deep connection to the team will have sharpened your 
sense of how real the numbers are.
      I remember starting a project with a new client who had historically had a 
terrible time coming up with an accurate forecast. I was brought on board very 
close to the time sales budgets were submitted and I was asked to provide a 
sales number for the New Year. I’m not certain why they thought my number


would be better than the existing team’s missed guesses from past years. I 
gathered some data and made the forecast. Everyone was surprised when for 
the first three months I was within two thousand dollars each month on numbers 
that exceeded 1.5 million dollars. How did I do it? Here was the secret: If 
nothing changes, then nothing changes. What this means is that unless you have 
changed something within your company or within the economy then you’ll likely 
have the same results as previously. This isn’t what people want to hear but it is 
the truth! Sometimes companies forecast a 25-35% growth rate but don’t plan to 
do anything different. I’m not sure why they are surprised when they don’t see 
the growth. What I had done in this case is look at the last three years actual 
sales totals. I look at the sales individually and subtracted anything that was an 
anomaly or something that was a “one-time surprise”. This gave me a base 
number. I figured out what the average “one-time surprises” were and added 
that number back in. The result was an accurate forecast. If nothing changes, 
then nothing changes.


      You should use a similar strategy when forecasting your numbers. Get a 
solid baseline and then ask yourself, “What has changed?” and then account for 
this change. When you identify something that has or will change in the 
upcoming year avoid being optimistic about the impact this will have on revenue. 
Pick a number based on your best data and then look at past changes. What 
was the difference between expected and actual revenue? How far off were the


predictions? What was the average percentage the team was off by? Adjust 
your number by that percentage.


      Good forecasting requires you to understand your buyer’s behavior. It is 
incumbent on you to understand what is happening in the world of your 
customers and how they are making the buying decision. As you have 
implemented the earlier suggestions, you will have a series of milestones that 
your customers typically go through. Certain percentages that are at one 
milestone will move to the next and a certain percentage will fall out. Use this 
number to inform your forecast. Recognize that the process of forecasting 
should always be changing and as you learn, you’ll get better at producing a 
reliable number that can help you lead and manage the business and decide how 
to allocate resources.


      When you come up with a number through a data driven and thoughtful 
process, don’t adjust the number just because someone else on the executive 
team doesn’t like the resulting number. If they want the number to be higher go 
back to my adage: If nothing changes, nothing changes. You might tell the other 
executives that you’d be happy to raise the number, but something will have to 
change. Are they prepared to invest in additional marketing, tradeshows, 
salespeople, etc.? Arbitrary numbers will have unintended consequences. If 
there is a difference in opinion on what the number should be then be willing to 
fight up front about it. It is better to fight up front than to chase an unrealistic


number the rest of the year. Done correctly at the start you will have created 
great value for your company, enhanced your trustworthiness and made your job 
much easier in the process.


<A>Chapter 19: Replicating Success



      As the Sales Boss you ultimately are the one who has the broadest view 
of all of the things that impact sales success. Indeed if you are doing your job 
well, you have a better feel for the pulse of the company than anyone else 
including the CEO. You have access to the company’s budgets; you review the 
marketing plans, and perhaps even sit in on some of the operations meetings. 
You are in the field with your salespeople and see the widest segment of 
companies across different geographies and market segments. Be aware of the 
unique insights this gives you and the ability to see how everything fits together. 
Remember that things that might seem obvious to you (because of the plethora 
of information available to you) might seem less obvious to others in your 
company. Be ready to make the case for things that will help replicate successes 
across the organization. It is not unusual for other departments to make 
decisions based on the silo that they exist in everyday and you bring real value to 
the organization when you are able to relate stories from the field.


      For instance, you might discover through your regular calls with the sales 
team that there is a new competitor in the field that is gaining traction due to a


unique product feature or positioning. Would recounting these stories to the 
marketing and product development teams prove valuable? Would additional 
research be warranted? You might understand from your discussions with your 
finance department that the margins on one of your key products have shrunk 
dramatically or that the cost to support the product makes the segment less 
attractive. Would refocusing the prospecting efforts of your sales team to other 
products impact the overall profitability of the company? When marketing 
launches a new campaign, do you communicate and coordinate that to the sales 
team so they can leverage the exposure and do you provide feedback to 
marketing if their efforts produce the wrong type of leads? Hopefully you can see 
the need to be reaching into other areas of the company for the benefit of your 
team.


      An area that you can focus on that will help you to replicate success 
across the company is territory planning. It is a fact that your sales people will 
tend to focus on areas of selling that they are most comfortable in selling to.
Typically this will come from the areas they have had the most success in or that 
they feel the most knowledgeable about. For instance, one of my clients sells 
equipment that can both be utilized in the medical field and also in food 
processing. When they hire a salesperson, the salesperson can sometimes end 
up focusing almost entirely on one of the segments and ignoring the others due 
to their own past experience. Perhaps they have a medical background and so 
they call on medical companies while their coworker ends up selling entirely to


food companies because they are comfortable calling on plant engineers. Your 
role is to make sure that you have clearly defined the profile of appropriate 
targets in each territory and then have aligned the efforts of the team to 
effectively target those accounts. You should analyze the past successes of the 
team and build a profile of the most profitable and probable types of prospects so 
that you can replicate those wins across the company.


      A company should be able to say with clarity, “Our best customers are X – 
size, are involved in this type of business, have these kinds of problems and are 
most likely to buy when this event has happened or is about to happen.” It is this 
clarity that will allow your team to replicate success consistently. When you are 
coaching your salesperson you may discover a trend that has led to greater 
success by a member of your team. When this happens, make sure and develop 
a case study that can be shared across the company that details why this trend is 
impacting sales and how the team members can leverage the trend to win new 
business. What questions should they be asking? What news sources or 
organizations should they be tuned into to identify prospects? Formalize the 
process of sharing insights about what is working rather than leave it to the 
grapevine.


      When thinking about how to replicate success, think about aligning with 
people outside the walls of your company. Ask yourself this question: Who are 
the companies that sell into the same customers or events as we do, but sell a


different product? For instance if you have a company that sells equipment into 
new construction projects, you might identify folks that sell insurance, security, 
temp-workers, etc. This can happen regardless of industry. There is always 
some company that shares your target prospect. How do you leverage that 
company’s marketing and relationships to your advantage? It should be your 
goal to create formal referral networks with these parallel industries. Require 
your salespeople to arrange and chair these lead groups.


      Here is how it works: Draw up a list of types of companies that are 
parallel to yours and who call at the same level in the organization as your team. 
For example if you need to call on the CEO, you wouldn’t consider a parallel 
company to be someone that calls on Operations or vice-versa. A parallel 
company is one that has the same type of prospect companies and call at the 
same level in the company. Once you develop a list of 5-10 companies, 
research who the best sales person is for those companies in the region that 
your salesperson is covering. So for instance, if I have my team split into 
covering five regions, I will have a list of five salespeople’s names from the 
parallel company. For the sake of discussion let’s pretend you have a Midwest 
sales region. You’ve identified seven parallel companies and now have seven 
names of those company’s salespeople. What you want to do is reach out and 
invite these salespeople to participate in a leads group. Arrange for your 
salesperson to host a lunch or breakfast in the region once per month in a place 
convenient to the group. You want this to be face-to-face. During this meeting


each participant will make it their goal to share intelligence on the companies and 
prospects that they each are calling on. Invariably each of the salespeople will 
have different relationships and have called on different targets than the other 
companies.


      As the group develops friendships and trust with each other, they’ll 
become good sources of leads. This is like having seven extra sets of eyes out 
in your target market. Because you are calling on a similar market, your 
salesperson should make it a point at these meetings to position themselves as a 
trusted advisor and knowledgeable about the industry. They should come 
prepared to share a recent industry trend or something else that will prove 
valuable to the rest of the group. As the Sales Boss, you might even provide 
these talking points or ask for help from your marketing team. The key idea is 
that as your salesperson gives of themselves at these hosted events, they’ll 
quickly establish themselves as someone that can be trusted and the other 
salespeople will want to reciprocate by providing value in return. It’s human 
nature. There is nothing better than when one of the members of the lead group 
calls and says, “Hey I was in at XYZ company and I noticed that they are 
expanding into X, this would be the perfect time for you to reach out to them. Do 
you have a relationship with Jim already or shall I introduce the two of you?” 
That’s replicating success. Don’t leave it to your sales team to decide if this is 
something they’ll do. Make it mandatory and part of the expectations for 
managing the territory. It pays huge dividends.


      A final area to consider is how you position your team as experts. In this 
age of Google, most customers will have done some research and formed an 
impression about your company and your salesperson prior to buying or 
engaging with you. To the extent possible, find ways to have your sales people 
be viewed as experts in the community. This means speaking on panels at 
conferences, writing articles in trade journals, posting relevant material on 
LinkedIn. The goal is that when a prospect has a problem, they think of your 
team as the experts. I have found that this is a weak area in most companies. It 
is a grey area that lives between sales and marketing and so nobody takes full 
responsibility for its execution. For the Sales Boss, this is something that you 
own and nurture. A side benefit is that as the community starts to see your 
salesperson as an expert, the confidence of the salesperson is also increased 
and the sale becomes easier because the client is less susceptible to applying 
pricing pressure.


      Live with your radar on high alert and find the opportunities to replicate 
success. There are always clues about what made things happen. Your job as 
Sales Boss is to find them and replicate them.

<A> Chapter 20: The Business of You



      The Sales Boss understands that ultimately they are self-employed and 
that they work for themselves. You must have the mindset of an entrepreneur


who recognizes that success and failure lay fully as their responsibility. As the 
Sales Boss, you are in the business of you. No matter what company you have 
chosen to attach yourself to, your income is predicated on what you have done 
and what you have failed to do. You don’t get credit for your sales plan or what 
you intended to do. You get credit for what you actually produce. Unlike almost 
any other role in the company, your value gets measured by a black-and-white 
measuring stick of revenue generated for the company and typically you are only 
as good as your last quarter. Past wins are soon forgotten as the pressure of 
today’s shortcoming in sales grows larger. The only remedy is sales. Sales fix 
everything. This is the reality of a Sales Boss’ life. It takes a unique personality 
to be able to operate with this level of unending pressure, but the Sales Boss 
thrives in this environment.


      Recognizing that you are in the business of you means that you take care 
of yourself mentally, physically and emotionally. You are responsible for filling 
yourself up with the things that will inspire, refresh and energize you. These 
things will give you the ability to give of yourself to the team. I’d like you to reflect 
for a minute on a couple of questions and rather than simply read these 
questions, actually answer them.


<C>When was the last time you attended a non-work related conference or 
training?


      It is important that you expose yourself to trends in industries outside of 
the one you work in. None of our businesses exist in a vacuum and often the 
trends started in one industry eventually bleed into others. By attending other 
conferences you give your mind the opportunity to make mental connection 
between sometimes seemingly unrelated things and you increase your mental 
flexibility.


<C>What was the last book or magazine you read?


A leader will always have a steady diet of thought fed through reading.
Try and read from a wide range of sources. One of the challenges with reading 
online is that the Internet has been designed to serve us information that the data 
says we are most likely to respond to. So for instance if you read political articles 
from conservative sources, you’ll start noticing that your Google searches will list 
conservative sources first when doing an Internet search. We can start to 
consume information in an echo chamber that feeds us back and reinforces our 
own viewpoints. This leads to mental rigidity. I recommend consuming books, 
magazines, and web articles from as wide a range as possible. I subscribe to 
science magazines, travel magazines, psychology magazines, industry trade 
journals, lifestyle magazines, conservative news magazines, liberal news 
magazines, entrepreneurial magazines, and established business magazines 
such as Forbes. I read at least two books a month related to sales and a third 
book on a random topic. I have found that this buffet of information creates


connections in unexpected ways that have value to the work I am trying to 
accomplish. Try adding a little variety into your reading diet.


<C>What sacred time do you have set aside for you?



      When I use the term sacred time, it is similar to what I meant by sacred 
rhythms. What is the time that you have set-aside just for you? The time you 
use to meditate, exercise or reflect and plan? I suggest that you block this time 
on your calendar to signify its importance to you and to be intentional with how 
you use the time. If you do have time set aside, are you using it effectively?


      The time I have available to me most often is the early morning hours. I 
found that I was using this time for catching up on the news. It wasn't until 
someone started asking me why I'd ever want to start my day that way that I 
started thinking about how much this routine had become a part of who I was. I 
decided to quit the routine of checking the news in the morning, but I still kept 
logging in. Frustrated, I decided to start taking notes on the news that I digested 
in the morning. The results were sobering; I'd on average consume twenty 
deaths, murders, and atrocities in the first thirty minutes. By the time I'd finished 
forty-five, I'd learned about cheating, lying, embezzling, hunger, and genocide. 
That was enough to sober me up and make me quit cold turkey. I've been clean 
for a year. I replaced the morning ritual (addiction), with another ritual: writing and 
learning. It has proven to be a powerful 1-2 punch! The results surprised even


me. Now with my first cup of coffee, I log into Ted Talks and watch people 
dreaming, doing, and sharing amazing things. Once my mind wakes up and I am 
feeling inspired, I write. This past year I completed writing several guides related 
to my business expertise that has helped my clients and served as useful 
prospecting tools. I contributed to a book with Jack Canfield that hit number one 
Best-Seller on Amazon and this book that you hold in your hands today. I've kept 
up with my blogging. I've designed and launched several new products. After I 
write, I've started to log into Lynda.com and choose something to learn. So far I 
have learned the basics of PHP, how to use After-Effects and InDesign. I've 
picked up some additional marketing know-how, learned some fundamental 
concepts regarding analyzing big data, podcasting, and creating a video studio. 
I've met some amazing people and attended some fantastic conferences as a 
result of the people I met from these new morning routines. I achieved all of this 
just by substituting my world news addiction for something healthier. I still check 
in on the news, but I do it while driving in the car through satellite radio. Make 
sure that the habits you have regarding the personal time you do get serve you 
well.


<C>What sacred time do you have set aside for your family?



      The answer to this question is critically important. We don’t get any do 
overs. Our children, spouses and family don’t have a pause button. Most people 
that do well as a Sales Boss are successful because they love an environment


that gives them immediate challenge, feedback and success. They close a deal 
or help guide the team to the success of a deal. It feels good. We feel needed 
and relevant. We made it happen. Unfortunately this same feedback loop of 
success that we become addicted to can make us neglect our personal 
relationships and family. Its easy to understand how answering the email, 
making the phone call or getting on the plane leads to closing business and 
bringing in revenue. Our family life’s success isn’t as easily measured and the 
feedback isn’t as instantaneous. It’s only after a period of neglect that the results 
show up in divorce, alienated kids, or poor relationships. It’s only after consistent 
attention that we have close personal and loving relationships. The only way to 
guard against this is to have sacred time for your family.


      Commit to yourself that you will not steal time and attention away from 
your family in the pursuit of being the Sales Boss. Don’t make an exception “just 
this once”, because you will soon learn that life is a series of exceptional 
circumstances. You company doesn’t own you because they pay you a salary. 
Shut your phone off in the evenings. Be fully present. Don’t send out emails to 
your team late at night or respond to their emails. I know that this idea is 
unpopular in a world that seems to glorify 24-7 access. The problem is we value 
accessibility sometimes more than results. Be powerful, present and results 
driven at work and then do the same for your family. Trust me when I say that 
your salespeople will have greater success if you insist they do the same. You 
don’t own them either. If you give 100% of your time to your company or expect


the same from your team, then you are in a vicious cycle of working-to-have- 
money-so-you-can-afford-a-place-to-sleep-so-you-can-go-back-to-work-to-afford- 
a-place-to-sleep. This is not a fun cycle. Decide that you will work so you can 
have a life.


<C>How do you relax?



      This is an important idea. How do you shut down and relax? Does your 
method leave you energized and refreshed? In my work, I find that many sales 
managers turn to alcohol to relax. If this is your prime method to relax you will 
discover that it’s not a sustainable solution. I’m not suggesting you don’t drink, 
but simply that I see many sales manager use alcohol to relieve the pressure 
they feel at work. Take an inventory of how you relax. Does it serve you well?


<C>Who is your mentor?



It has been said that we are the sum of the people that we hang out with.

If this is true, it highlights for us the importance to be mindful of whom we 
associate with. Do you have a mentor? Do you have someone that embodies a 
skill, a quality or something else that you’d like posses that you spend time with 
as a mentee? Try to find someone that is operating at a level higher than you and 
spend time with that person. Have you ever played a sport with someone better 
than you? What happened? For a while, I liked to play racquetball. A curious


thing happened when I would play someone that was my equal. I would actually 
find my skills deteriorating and I would start to become bored! However, when I 
would play someone better than me not only did my skills increase, the 
enjoyment I got from the game was much higher even though I lost a higher 
percentage of the games played. If you want to be great make sure and play 
with people that are more skilled than yourself.


      As you thought through these questions did you like the answers to these 
questions? Develop the habit of checking in from time-to-time on how well you 
are doing at caring for yourself. It is easy to get caught up in the routines of what 
we need to get done each day as the Sales Boss and forget about our own 
needs. It is vital that you remember that your most important client is you.
Without your mental and physical health you can contribute what is most needed 
to the team. Just like physical diet and exercise, the better your mental diet and 
exercise the happier and more successful you will be. Most sales managers get 
to a point where they aren’t upgrading their skills through books, conferences, 
mentoring groups and other resources. The Sales Boss is aggressive about 
upgrading their knowledge and plugging themselves into sources that energize 
them. Because of this the Sales Boss stand above their crowd of peers.
Because of this, their team can sense their energy, enthusiasm and intelligence 
and it is easier for them to follow.


      Let’s get slightly more personal. If you were to stand in front of a mirror 
what would you see? What would your physical appearance tell you? Your 
appearance is an accumulation of the choices that you have made. Let's be 
honest, age and time hits us all. While it may soften our edges and give us the 
look of wisdom, it can also be downright harsh. But look closer. Can you see the 
evidence of too many days spent behind a computer with little to no activity? Can 
you feel the strain in your joints? If you look, you'll find those late-night meals 
eaten on the run while you tried to fit in one more thing before the day came to 
end again before you fell asleep exhausted knowing you'd never get enough 
sleep before the cycle would start again. You'll feel the time spent slaving over 
another important deadline- “I'm too busy to relax, I will sleep when I am dead”- 
mindset.


      Here's the hard truth: You can't lead if you can't control your life and 
health. I'm not suggesting a leader needs to be fit for the cover of a magazine or 
can't have health issues-- we are all human after all. What I am suggesting is that 
your leadership edge is duller when you forget to take time to be healthy and 
make the healthiest choices you can. Given a choice, nobody wants to follow a 
fat leader. I can say this because I’ve been fat and unhealthy. It doesn’t have to 
“come with the territory.” The Sales Boss recognizes that they are a billboard for 
the company. People will be influenced by what they see. Make sure that you 
are healthy then choose clothing and personal grooming habits that say that you 
are the Sales Boss. Yes, you can manage people and sales without having this


aspect buttoned up, but you’ll never be a Sales Boss. You’ll never operate at the 
highest level of results without getting this part of your world under control. Be 
healthy.


      Honestly assessing your routines and habits as a leader is the critical 
starting point to improvement. We’ve discussed within the pages of this book the 
real secrets to becoming a Sales Boss and what differentiates the extraordinary 
sales leader from the merely ordinary. So how did you do? The role of Boss isn’t 
easy, but it is filled with reward. You aren’t just helping companies sell more 
stuff. Done well, the Sales Boss leaves an indelible imprint on the lives of those 
they work with inspiring them to be the best version of themselves. They help 
their team grow and provide materially for their families in abundance. Nothing 
happens until someone sells something. No kids get sent to college, no homes 
get purchased, no diseases cured, and no vacations get enjoyed. You get to be 
at the center of something special as the Sales Boss. Go build something great. 
Build a sales team. You have the secret. Being a Sales Boss is up to you.

